# FAQ Progress

### 9/23/2017

**Completed**:

[X] [Try Git](https://try.github.io/levels/1/challenges/1)
  * This tutorial was pretty simple. I rarely, if ever, use `git diff`. I usually use the built in tool in Atom that monitors changes to the local repository. Atom recently introduced a pretty nifty staging environment for git, but I still primarily enjoy using the terminal and `git status` for tracking files that have been changed and need to be committed. I don't ever use `git log` either. I typically look at a repository's / branch's history on Github. I will try both out a couple of times and try to incorporate them into my workflow if they prove useful.

[X] [Git Guide](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
  * I enjoyed this guide. I've never heard of tagging a particular commit through `git tag` for software releases, but then again, I don't primarily write *software*. It seems like cool little tool that could really help compare what the changes were between certain releases and to look at a previous version if a bug occurs down the road. I also want to learn and make use of the different commands in the **Useful Hints** section. I never heard of any of those and they seem pretty cool.

[X] [Git Foundations](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg7s6cbtAD15G8lNyoaYDuKZSKyJrgwB-)
  * I really enjoyed this playlist. First off, the intro of two octocats meowing was absolutely adorable. I enjoyed rewatching that 22 times. The videos were a great refresher of basic git commands, but they also explained a lot of the background information that I never really knew or learned. One thing I was somewhat surprised about was how often they mentioned a GUI. I personally enjoy working with git through the command line, but I can see the appeal of using a GUI to stay away from the *scary* terminal. I suppose I used to be somewhat scared / cautious when approaching the command line when I was first learning to program, but as I have become more comfortable interacting with terminal, I feel I have become a more competent programmer.
  <!-- ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ -->
  * A few cool things I picked up and want to try are:
    - `git diff --staged`
    - `git diff --color-words` and `git diff --word-diff` for working with staged commits.
     - Again, I pretty much rely on Atom to tell me these differences, but Atom marks changes even when you switch punctuation or changing the spacing style of a particular line. It may sometimes be useful to see what specifically changed in a particular line compared to the last commit.
    - `git log --stat` and `git log --patch`
      - I typically use GitHub to view the changes made to files in particular commits, but I can see where this could be beneficial.
    - `git log --graph --all --decorate --oneline`
      - Seems like a cool command. Don't know how practical it is for me in my current work environment.
    - `git add -u .` helpful for removing multiple files.
    - `git add -A .` for tracking many files that have been moved.
    - `git log --stat -M --follow -- filename`
      - Starting to see the power of `git log` in general, but seeing the history of a file, even when it is moved (didn't know that was possible), is pretty awesome. I know that GitHub holds a particular file's history, but I don't think I've used it before.
    - A cool concept was the similarity index that git uses. Never knew that was there working in the background.
    - `git ls-files --others --ignored --exclude-standard` tells you the files that .gitignore is telling git to not track
    - `git merge --squash`
      - I typically squash commits in a `git rebase`, but I may try this method out if I ever want to squash merged commits.
    - `git reflog`

[X] [Hello World](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/)
  * Straightforward walkthrough of making a repository, creating a branch, and merging the branch back into the master branch. It was pretty cool that you could do all that from the GitHub online interface.

[X] [Git Immersion](http://gitimmersion.com/index.html)
  * This was a great tutorial. It was really in depth and allowed me to use a few of the topics covered in some of the previous tutorials that I've never used before. I am a person who learns by doing, and it was great to get my hands dirty and refresh my knowledge about git commands I *knew*, but never really used. It was also fun exploring a lot of the background information of git. Exploring the `.git` file was fun and eye opening for me. It's not something I've done in the past, and learning how git stores a repository's information was awesome to learn.
  * I learned some really cool things:
    - First off, I've never played with Ruby before, and while the Ruby programming was sparse, I really enjoyed working with a language that was outside of my domain. I love touching the stuff I don't know. Perhaps that's why I switch topics so often.
    - I never knew you could make aliases for git commands, so adding those to my `.gitconfig` in my $HOME directory was nifty. I especially liked `hist = log --pretty=format:'%h %ad | %s%d [%an]' --graph --date=short`. I started using `git hist` quite a bit during this tutorial and enjoyed it. I don't know how often I'd use it in a work environment, but I'm going to try to get into a habit of using it and see if it is beneficial.
	- I will research all the things mentioned in lab 52: "Reverting Committed Changes," "Cross OS Line Endings", "Remote Servers", "Protocols", "SSH Setup", "Remote Branch Management", "Finding Buggy Commits (git bisect)", "Workflows", "Non-command line tools (gitx, gitk, magit)", and "Working with GitHub" to learn about them.

**Thoughts**: I know that P1xt wrote to choose one git tutorial, but I rather enjoyed going through all the different ones she had listed. It was a nice refresher of all things git, and I even learned a few new tricks. I first learned how to program at Grand Circus, a coding bootcamp in Detroit, Michigan. While I learned a lot of practical information, I missed out on some of the theory and bigger picture concepts. That is a lot of the knowledge that I am trying to pick up in order to fill in the gaps. I have a couple more to get through, and I will continue to go through the guide to make as much progress as possible. I'd appreciate any feedback, and if you made it this far, a genuine and sincere thank you!

See y'all [next time](9_24_17.md),
Shug =]
