# FAQ Progress

### 9/24/2017

**Completed**:

[ ] [How to Use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775)
  * I found this course to be really informative. I especially enjoyed the additional content provided via the teacher's notes. I will separate my comments by lesson.

  [X] **Lesson 1**: This lesson provided a fairly in depth look into version control systems in general and began to focus on git in the later sections.
    - I did not know that you could compare files without a version control system. On Windows using `FC` or `diff` on Mac/Linux. I suppose this is something I should have realized as the computer would just compare differences between the files themselves, but it is not really a functionality I used prior to programming. I don't know if I'll use it in the future because that would require manually saving multiple versions of a specific file and renaming it.

    - They talked about was what features a programmer would want in a version control system. They displayed that information in a feature comparison chart. Essentially, they said that Git matched those desires and were similar to if an individual were to manual save those changed files under a different name. I've only sparingly used SVN at my last job and it seemed okay. I suppose I don't really encounter many version control systems. This also made me think I should setup Time Machine on my Mac just in case.

    |               | Any Editor | Use Offline | Manual Save |
    |---------------|------------|-------------|-------------|
    | Manual Saving |     Yes    |     Yes     |     Yes     |
    | DropBox       |     Yes    |      No     |      No     |
    | Google Docs   |     No     |      No     |      No     |
    | Wikipedia     |     No     |      No     |     Yes     |
    | Git           |     Yes    |     Yes     |     Yes     |
    | SVN           |     Yes    |      No     |     Yes     |

    - An interesting concept they shared was "*one commit per logical change*." I really enjoyed that. I often think that my own commits can be either too small or too big. There are either large leaps or those that I feel are not worthy of their own commit. I will try to be mindful or this phrase when programming and incorporate it into my workflow.

    - To reiterate something I mentioned yesterday, I rarely, if ever used `git log` or `git diff` prior to going through any of these tutorials. To further illustrate my naiveté about these commands, I didn't know why I couldn't scroll through an entire repository's commit history in `git log` or why `git diff` only showed a few code differences when I knew there many more. I then learned that you have to navigate both of those with the down arrow and you can exit by hitting `q`. The more I see and use those two commands, the more I plan on integrating them both into my workflow. I already check `git status` like a madman, so I will try to get better at using `git log` and `git diff` when necessary as opposed to looking on GitHub. This will also prove useful if I don't have an internet connection.

    - I laughed when I found out that Git can output the error "*Should not be doing an octopus*" and that the Haskell compiler GHC can throw the "*Panic! (the 'impossible' happened)*" error. No one can say that programmers don't have a sense of humor.

    - One thing that I've been slowly realizing by watching all of these tutorials is that I have not been utilizing Git's version control system to its full potential. I don't allow myself to take the necessary risks to make large changes to the way I'm approaching a particular task. Aside from first creating a project, I typically try to introduce incremental improvements slowly over the course of the development lifecycle. While there is not necessarily a problem with that approach, I am realizing that version control provides a safety net that allows you to take larger risks. If I introduce a feature breaking bug, I can always revert my code to a prior state where it was functioning as intended. This may be something that starts off slowly and feels uncomfortable, but I can definitely see it paying off down the road. I will try to utilize Git as the version control system it was intended to be as opposed to the saving the state of a program I have somewhat pigeonholed it into. I also recognize that this type of approach may not always be feasible in a work environment when you must meet deadlines.

    - I enjoyed going through the process of personalizing my terminal and adding additional commands to git. I'm not sure how much I like their recommended changes, but I suppose this is something I will have to investigate on my own to find out what works best for me. Either way, I will looking into [Bash Shell Setup](https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/howto-linux-unix-bash-shell-setup-prompt.html) to learn more about how to customize the terminal. I actually changed the color scheme they went with because I didn't like the ones they chose. I'll see how much I like the other changes they introduced in the coming days or if I even notice them at all. Overall, I can't complain, I am happy that I am getting better at changing the appearance of terminal and learning how to configure the `.bash_profile`, `.gitconfig`, and other similar files. Again, for what it's worth, getting better with terminal has made me a better programmer. <!-- ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ -->

    - They recommended changing the default Git editor to one of your choice, so I changed it to Atom, though I do want to eventually want to learn how to competently traverse through VIM.

    - I did not change push.default or merge.conflictstyle. They recommended using upstream and diff3 respectively, but I prefer pushing changes the default way and I don't mind the default merge.conflictstyle either. Personal preference I suppose.

  [X] **Problem Set 1**: The next section was a problem set that had you practice the skills you learned in Lesson 1. It was nice to have some problems to practice in order to reinforce the material I just covered. It was also nice to get some more hands on practice with `git log` and `git diff` under my belt.

**Thoughts**: I enjoyed going through the first two sections of this course. Actually, I've really enjoyed the process of going through all of these Git tutorials thus far. I'm by no means a Git wizard, but I've felt comfortable with my knowledge up to this point. I've enjoyed familiarizing myself with commands I knew of, but rarely used, and even learning a couple of handy tricks along the way. It's always a nice feeling adding a new skill to the toolbox. I suppose this is the best manner to learn these things. In a relaxed environment when you have no real chance of messing up anything important. Even if you do, it won't really matter because it will be a learning experience. I would rather mess up in training / practice as opposed to when it actually counted.

This is also at the core of why I love learning and believe that it is the answer to any of life's problems. You can always get better. You must accomplish that through learning that acting upon what you learned. I do believe there is a genetic upper limit to most things we pursue in life, but that doesn't have to stop you from getting as good as you possibly can in whatever domain you want to get better in.

I may not be a *great* developer now, I may not even be a *great* developer when it is all said and done, but I am satisfied knowing that I will exert my effort to become as good as I possibly can. I will be a better developer tomorrow than I was today. If I continue down this road, I am confident I will be a much better dev than when I started.

I plan on completing the final two portions of this course tomorrow, but I may have to split it up over the course of a few days.

If you got to this point, thank you, and I'd love and appreciate any feedback.

Until next time,
Shug =]
