# FAQ Progress

### 9/25/2017

**Completed**:

[ ] [How to Use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775)
  * I'm continuing my way through this course.

  [X] **Lesson 2**:

  - I will definitely start using `git diff` more regularly. I did not know that you could use it to compare changes between the staging area and the working directory if no arguments are passed in. That seems incredibly useful.

  - I also liked `git diff --staged`. I can see why comparing staged files to the working directory would be useful.

  - I liked the command `git log --graph`. I may use this to compare branches, but I typically rebase before merging. I may run it just to see the beautiful ascii art.

  - I learned that you can manually run git's garbage collection using `git gc`.

  - Mental note: `git merge` always merges the specified branches into the currently checked out branch. I thought that was why you referenced the checked out branch as one of the two branches as arguments, but that was incorrect. You can merge with only one branch name as an argument. You can also merge with multiple branch names as arguments and they will all be merged into the currently checked out branch. Good to know.

  - I heard of, but never learned what `CR` (`/r`) or `LF` (`/n`) stood for. They are carriage return and line feed respectively. Unix systems add `LF` while Windows adds `CRLF`. Also good to know.

  - I never heard of `git show` before today . It is a command I will play with to see how useful it proves.I can see why comparing to differences of the previous commit may be useful in order to refresh yourself of any changes you've made since.

  - They spoke about a style guide for writing Git commits and the one thing that stood out to me was making them actions in the present tense. I need to be mindful of this. I often make my commits in the past tense of verbs saying things like "added", 'worked on', etc... . They added this [Commit Style Guide](http://udacity.github.io/git-styleguide/) as a reference.

  - They spoke about the conflict detection that Git uses to track changes and how it tries to auto-resolve merge conflicts. It was interesting to hear that background information.

  - Never heard of either [gliffy](https://www.gliffy.com/) or [yUML](https://yuml.me/diagram/activity/draw). Both seem pretty cool for diagraming things out. I will probably try one of them out as I method I like to use when learning is concept mapping, and they both seem like great tools to accomplish that. Perhaps you'll see one in the future.

  - Watching this series made me realize that merge.conflictstyle diff3 was not what I thought it was. I thought it just added | instead of the < or >. I really liked seeing the common ancestor appearance and I eventually used `git config --global merge.conflictstyle diff3` to change my merge.conflictstyle. I will update my post from [yesterday](9_25_17.md) to reflect this.

**Thoughts**: Lesson 2 primarily focused on merging branches. I enjoyed this because I remember how nervous merging branches made me feel when I was first learning to program. If I thought merging was bad, I can only imagine the sheer terror I felt when I used rebase for the first time.

I've really enjoyed this course thus far.

Unfortunately, I only finished Lesson 2 today. I still have one more lesson left, and I will finish it tomorrow.

As always, thanks for getting to this point, and leave some feedback if you'd like, I'd really appreciate it.

Until we meet [again](9_26_17.md),

Shug =]
