# FAQ Progress

### 9/27/2017

**Completed**:

- [X] How to not f-up your local files with Git

  - [X] [part1](https://medium.com/@francesco.agnoletto/how-to-not-f-up-your-local-files-with-git-part-1-e0756c88fd3c),

    * I really enjoyed this article by Francesco Agnoletto. Check him out @Kornil on GitHub and [Fragno92](https://twitter.com/Fragno92) on Twitter.

      - I found the portion about rarely pushing to master intuitive, but not coding directly into the development branch a bit strange. When I initially create or clone a repository, I almost always run `git checkout -b devel`. I create myself a development branch and code directly in there. I typically create pull requests from the devel branch into master. I'm curious as to why he recommends adding another step in between. Perhaps it is to add another layer of checking and testing to ensure all the pushed changes to the development branch run as intended and do not introduce any unintended consequences or bugs into the master branch. This is something I will have to research a bit more and give some more thought to.

        - I will speak to our lead dev about potentially integrating this approach into our development workflow.

      - I liked his recommendation for labeling branches with a type. He has four type recommendations. They are bug, feature, refactor and style.

        - His naming convention is `type/feature-name`. I really like this. This will give commits a ton more clarity. I will implement this immediately and use it as soon as possible.

      - After seeing him mention VSCode, I'm going to give it a shot. I really do enjoy the customization of Atom and have loved it after picking it up while learning how to program. I absolutely love the packages (Shout out to Activate Power Mode!). There are a couple of things that break every once in a while, but the open source community really looks after Atom and takes great care of it. I can't really complain. I don't know if I'll like VSCode, but I've heard great things. Who knows, it may just blow Atom out of the water. On to part 2!

        - **Slightly Embarrassing Update**: I had Visual Studio Code on my Mac this whole time and haven't uses it once... So I obviously once downloaded it to try it out, but must of forgotten... *facepalm*

  - [X] [part2](https://medium.com/@francesco.agnoletto/how-to-not-f-up-your-local-files-with-git-part-2-fc4e243be02a)

    * Part 2 did not disappoint and was another great read. @Kornil has some great guidelines for commits.

      - He essentially shares the thoughts from the [How to Use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775) course that commits should be small and focus on "one logical change."

      - He recommends commit messages be short and clear. Not passing the 72 character limit and even recommends staying closer to 50 characters. This is definitely something I'm guilty of. In my commits that are too big, I can end up writing a wall of text. I need to break up my commits into smaller understandable bits.

        - In order to fully understand the commit from the message. He recommends that you look at the code of the commit to get a better understanding of the code that was implemented. This is something I need to get into the habit of doing. I will try this, but I think for I may have a difficult time understanding a lot of the extremely complex commits that our lead dev pushes. I will have to ask him for clarity on the things that I do not understand. Understanding his code will make me a better developer and make me more comfortable in all of our codebases. It can only help me grow. I must face this discomfort head on!

      - I've never written a commit body, I have only written commit titles in the past, but I may have to try integrating this when a particular commit may need a bit of additional explanation. `git commit -m "your commit title" -m "your commit body"`. The second set of quotes provide the content for the commit body.

      - I've never made a commit from Atom, but making a commit from VSCode looks simple enough. I'll have to try it out.

      - He has an interesting set of guidelines to push your code to the development branch. Essentially, he checks out the development branch, pulls, then checks out his feature branch, and finally he merges his feature into the development branch. I like his reasoning for following this order of steps.

      - I really loved his conclusion. "Make good commits, [boost] your commit history, be the developer everyone loves to review, don’t fall victim to conflicts, drink at least 6 glasses of water every day[,] and go for a walk every once in a while." Those are all things I can benefit from.

        - Random aside, but I try to drink more than that amount of water.

  - [X] [part3](https://medium.com/chingu/how-to-not-f-up-your-local-files-with-git-part-3-bf03b27b6e64)

    * I really enjoy this guy's writing style. The manner in which he discusses development topics really resonates with me. He is straight to the point, is easy to understand, and brings a lot of great content.

      - He mentions something I briefly talked about in a previous post. I've been using Git incorrectly. I've been using Git to save versions of my files, but I have not been using Git to its full potential.

      - He talks about only writting [Atomic Commits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_commit). It is an interesting concept and something I will have to read more about. This will be something that becomes easier with practice.

      - I can really see the value of a solid commit history in the future when you may have forgotten some of the work you have done. It can also help you come up to speed incredibly quickly if you are brought on to a new project if the commits by the other devs on your team were informative. This is why I must get into the habit of writing better commits. I want to make my coworkers and future collaborators lives easier.

      - Holy SHIT! VSCode can commit certain lines of code... SOLD! That is awesome. I have no idea if Atom can do that, but that definitely makes it easier to commit "one logical change" if you happen to have gone into a file and worked on multiple things at once.

      - He recommends staying away from `git rebase` which is an interesting opinion. We rebase all the time where I'm at. I think it is more to keep our commit history "*clean*," more than anything else. It is something I'll talk to my lead dev about.

      - His explanation of using `git revert hash` as opposed to `git rebase` definitely makes sense. In this scenario, I would also agree that reverting the committed changes is better than rebasing. Altering the history of a repo can have unintended consequences.

  * Those were three amazing articles. All three were extremely well written and really informative. I really enjoy his writing style and the manner he conveys information. I will definitely read some of his other pieces on Medium and follow him on GitHub. Thank goodness for @P1xt. I have discovered a ton of truly spectacular information due to her guides.

- Huzzah, all the Git recommendations in the FAQ guide have been completed! Whoop whoop!

## What development environment should I be using?

- My favorite editor is Atom but I will try out VSCode for a little bit to see how I like it. I'll update how that transition goes and how I like the editor. I've heard that Atom is going to get IDE functionality soon, so I may jump back when 1.21 gets released.

- I will save all my code in GitHub. I have found it incredibly helpful to save my code in repositories and it has allowed me to see the progress I've made. I hope to make even more progress in the upcoming months and am excited to see how I grow as a developer.

  - I may also start to store other types of goals on GitHub as I've really enjoyed how keeping this repository up to date and pushing myself to learn as much as possible has kept me incredibly motivated. I am thinking about starting a repository to track my fitness progress and one to track and possibly transcribe lectures, cool videos, articles, and books I watch or read. This may be extremely time consuming, but I would enjoy sharing my notes hoping that someone else could benefit from them. I hope that one day people would be able to see them as having positively impacting them.

- I've never published anything to the web aside from my final project from the Grand Circus bootcamp which we hosted on Heroku and some projects from work. I need to learn how to use GitHub pages. I'll also look into Surge.sh

  - One of the first things I would like to make live is a blog where I could host these thoughts but share some additional writing. I believe that I am capable of doing that at this current moment. I have one that I have put a decent amount of work into, but I need to finish it. At this current moment, I want to prioritize learning the fundamental skills of programmer, of a JavaScript developer, and learn many of the broader computer science topics. I also think once I have solidified my skills, I will be able to whip out a blog in no time!

  - I never really liked CodePen or found their platform appealing. I enjoyed developing and using MAMP or Atom Live Server to immediately run my files on a local server.

- She recommends staying away from Cloud 9 for online coding. I've only heard of it from CS50, as I believe their IDE is hosted through Cloud 9. Once I begin going through the CS50 lectures, I'll see if their online IDE is required / critical to the course, or if I can manage using another editor like Atom or VSCode.

- The only using assets you create yourself or have the proper copyright is an interesting. I don't know if many of my own public repositories even follow that guideline. I want to eventually get competent at the Adobe suite of products, but tackling that and getting better as a programmer do not necessarily seem like they go hand in hand.

  - I may use my downtime, or times when I'm too mentally drained to program as time to explore Photoshop, Illustrator, or others. I want some sort of creative outlet, and being able to get better at design and learning how to create amazing logos and assets would be awesome to learn.

  - This is one of the problems I spoke about in my initial thoughts. I tend to jump around too often, I need to narrow my focus and keep my eyes set on becoming a better developer. I will focus my energy into becoming as competent as possible in this domain!

- When I was younger, I had a problem given attribution to other's for their diligent work. I wanted to appear smarter than I actually was. Now, I want to grow. I don't really care if people think I'm smart or not. I'm not. Not really. I want to learn and grow as much as possible. I want to become the best version of me. I will give as much attribution to the people and resources I have found that have helped me. I hope that by sharing these people's work, others can join me on this journey of learning and growing. I also hope that by sharing these individual's work, they gain more exposure for the awesome contributions they have made, and that they continue to put out incredible content.

  * So initially:

    - A tremendous thank you to @P1xt for writing and incredible set of guides. Thank you for inspiring me to push this out and get as good as I possibly can.
    - Shoutout to @Kornil for writing an amazing set of articles about Git. All three were excellent. I really enjoyed going through them and learning from you. I will be following your work.
    - A big thank you to my buddy @PlumDot for really inspiring me to get better. He left his job as a senior UX designer to get better as a dev. It has been incredible to see how he has gotten over the past few months. He has pushed me to stream on Twitch, found a ton of awesome resources to help us both, and has been one of my biggest inspirations to get better.

- Huzzah! Another section finished.

**Thoughts**: Today was a great day. I really enjoyed the 3 articles about Git. I also have enjoyed writing about the process I will be going through. It gets me amped up to start learning. I will continue through the FAQ guide tomorrow. I don't know how in depth of notes I'll take for the upcoming sections, but I may just give some of my thoughts in general about what @P1xt wrote.

Thanks for getting to this point, leave some feedback if you'd like. I'd really appreciate it.

Good [morrow](9_28_17.md),

Shug =]
