# FAQ Progress

### 9/28/2017

**Completed**:

## How should I approach the items in the guides?
### Power up your learning - make every minute count

- I will make every minute count. The past couple of days have shown me that I have another level. I realize I am capable of more, but I recognize that I am moving in the right direction. A clinical psychologist I follow and admire, Jordan B. Peterson, always talks about slaying the dragon within ourselves. By confronting our fears and doing the very things we don't want to do, we begin to sort ourselves out. We begin to become the person we are supposed to be. I will become the best version of myself possible. I will "*sort myself out*." He also talks about finding a worthwhile pursuit and pursuing that thing to the best of your abilities. This experiment has been eye opening. I know what I want to do. I've begun to feel more alive. I cherish every single moment I get the opportunity to work on improving my skills.

- Typically, when I read a book, I go through it fairly extensively. I love taking notes in the margins (a lot of people I know think I'm weird for doing that). While I go through this set of guides, I will do just that. I will take notes to not only reinforce concepts into my own head, but hopefully to help others learn as well. With all of her book recommendations, I will try to get a physical copy of a book if it is readily available. I will take notes. I will go through all the code examples on my own to ensure that I understand the concepts being described. If the book is open source, I will also go through the online version to see if there have been any improvements, updates, or pull requests that clarify any points.

- I will do **ALL** the assignments in every course I do. I will even go back and create a pull request on the Create Your Own Adventure from the [How to Use Git and GitHub](https://www.udacity.com/course/how-to-use-git-and-github--ud775). Even if my pull request never gets closed, it will be a good practice experience for when I contribute to open source repositories in the future.

- I haven't used Gulp in a long time, but I recently was playing with it in a test project to play with some Sass. It was fun setting it up and getting everything to work again. I may look into learning how to use Grunt as well.

  - Automated tests kind of frighten me. TDD / ATDD is not something I would say I am well versed at. It is something I do have to get more comfortable with as I begin to program larger projects. It is also something I should be regularly practicing when I code. Fortunately, I played with Karma while in the bootcamp, but I will have to give myself a refresher.

  - I almost always try to include a README.md, so that shouldn't be a problem. Like learning how to properly write a Git commit I will be discussing in the next section, learning how to write a proper README may be something I need to look into.

  - I really enjoyed the article [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/). Holy crap does this article have a lot of information jam packed into it. @cbeams shares so much great information and links to many related blog posts that cover how to properly write commits. I spent a lot of time going through this article and all of the links it contained. I would highly recommend going through it, and if you do, do it thoroughly. There is a lot to learn here.

    - Firstly, he shares a few repositories that he recommends looking at to get a good idea of how to write a commit message.

      - The [Linux Kernel](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/commits/master)

      - [Git](https://github.com/git/git/commits/master)

      - [Spring Boot](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/commits/master)

      - Any of [Tim Pope](https://github.com/tpope/)'s repositories.

      - I have started to see the value in both seeing and attempting to understand how other developers approach their problems. I will learn from those who are much more experienced, let alone much more talented than I am. Initially, I'm fully expecting that a lot of the information will be completely beyond me and my abilities. Over time though, I hope that I can begin to pick up patterns. At the crux of it, programming is solving problems. There is a reason why they chose to solve a problem in a particular manner. Their reasons may often differ depending on the programmer and their end goal, but they will be important to learn and recognize. This may not always be possible with a lack of context, but I will do my best. I will look through these repos and others to learn how to think more programmatically. I'm primarily going to be looking at JavaScript repositories like [React](https://github.com/facebook/react), [Vue](https://github.com/vuejs/vue), [Node](https://github.com/nodejs/node), etc... .

      - I can definitely see why having well written commits is important when you have a repository that has over 700,000 commits like the Linux Kernel does. I can only imagine how it feels to navigate through that `git log`.

      - His seven rules of a great commit messages are a great guideline for how to structure your commits.

        1) Separate subject from body with a blank line

          - He recommends using a text editor to write commit messages that require this. This allows you to be more specific and add some stylistic touches like adding a blank line between the title and body and limiting the word wrap to 72 characters per line in the body.

        2) Limit the subject line to 50 characters

          - This section included a good article about [Atomic Commits](https://www.freshconsulting.com/atomic-commits/).

            - Honestly, all this talk about atomic commits, and committing after one logical change, I'm somewhat amazed that I've never heard anything on this concept earlier...

        3) Capitalize the subject line

        4) Do not end the subject line with a period

          - I am guilty of doing this all the time. I think every commit in this current repository has periods at the end of every commit. Yep... Just checked. Every commit except for 2 has a period at the end. I thought I was being grammatically correct. Though saving space for potentially more valuable content makes sense.

        5) Use the imperative mood in the subject line

          - I have a tendency to write git commits in the *indicative mood*. It makes *sense* to me. I'm used to saying that I completed a task in that manner. I've been more mindful of writing my more recent commits in the *imperative mood*.

          - His recommendation that a commit's subject line should complete the following sentence, "*If applied, this commit will...*" was super useful and easy to remember.

        6) Wrap the body at 72 characters

        7) Use the body to explain what and why vs. how

          - For both 6 and 7, I've never written a commit body. That is because my commit message was always in the subject... *face palm*. I'll get better at this...

    - I will definitely start to incorporate these best practices when writing commit messages in the future.

    - I want to read [Pro Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2) at some point in the future.

    - The additional links included in this article reiterated a lot of the same information, but this [blog](http://who-t.blogspot.co.at/2009/12/on-commit-messages.html) had a couple of nuggets I really liked.

        - I really enjoyed the point that any software project is a collaborative project.

          - "**Any software project is a collaborative project**. It has at least two developers, the original developer and the original developer a few weeks or months later when the train of thought has long left the station. This later self needs to reestablish the context of a particular piece of code each time a new bug occurs or a new feature needs to be implemented.""

        - A couple of acronyms that I may encounter in the future:

          - FOSS = Free and open-source software

          - SCM = Software configuration management

        - He has some great recommendations of both how to commit, and what you should avoid doing when committing. I have definitely been guilty of some of those bad practices. It's a good thing I stumbled into these *relatively* early in my development career.

    - You can partially stage files through the command line using `git add --patch`. I should have realized there would be a trick for this.

- I typically use both [jshint](http://jshint.com/) and [jscs](http://jscs.info/) to lint and check my javascript for stylistic errors. Due to @P1xt's recommendation of [ESLint](https://eslint.org/), I found out that jscs was deprecated and merged with ESLint. It is something I'll check out. I've also heard of BEM in the past, but I've never used it, so I will look into that as well.

- Her last point in this section is really why I've been tracking my progress. I hope that I can create a repository that people in my position are able to use to learn and grow from in the future. It is easy to feel like you are not progressing when you are just starting out. It is easy to feel overwhelmed. Thankfully, I have been speaking with many developers, both in work environments and at meetups, and picking their brains for as much information as they will possibly share. I'm sure that some of these vets get tired of answering these same repetitive questions from newbies, but there are few things I enjoy more than listening to someone who is willing to take time out of their day to impart their knowledge on me. I absolutely love it. I don't know if I'll ever be able to repay those people for taking the time to help me grow, but I will do my best to provide a resource to help others do just that.

**Thoughts**: I was hoping on getting through more of the FAQ today, but to reiterate, holy crap [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) was a great article. I focused pretty extensively on it and it took me some time to go through. I also did a lot of exploring of different popular GitHub repos to check their commit histories. Something I need to getter better at doing is looking at other people's code and deconstructing it.

These past couple of days have been somewhat eye opening. I know I don't contribute to open source repositories, but I'm surprised that no former or current coworkers have ever approached me to talk about Git commits and how I could make mine better. In the grand scheme of things, if your commits make sense to your team members, it probably doesn't matter, but I am seeing the value in writing better commit messages. As a codebase grows and as bugs occur, being able to navigate through your repository quickly with `git log` / `git diff` would be extremely useful with well written commits that contain one logical change.

Also, it has been awesome to see how much amazing content there is available to help people become better programmers. I've really enjoyed stumbling upon all of this different information. It can sometimes feel like I'm somewhat starting over, but I've more so been looking at this process as solidifying my foundation. Having some practical information on these concepts gives me a lot of context to better and more quickly relearn the material. I have so much more I want to learn, but when I stumble upon resources like this, I know I'll be able to get there.

As always, thanks for getting to this point if you did, and leave some feedback if you'd like. I'd genuinely appreciate it.

Until [next time](9_29_17.md),

Shug =]
