# FAQ Progress

### 9/29/2017

**Completed**:

I realized that it might not be clear what questions I am answering if I don't include them in the post. I will start including them, and update the previous posts to reflect this as well. Each parent point in quotes will be a recommendation by @P1xt, the rest will be my thoughts on each one.

## How should I approach the items in the guides?

### For each item you should:

#### "take notes, on a blog, in markdown, wherever, somewhere - not about what you read, or about what the instructor said - about what you learned"

  - I've been trying to take as thorough and useful notes on the material I've covered so far. It's been extremely beneficial. I've already noticed myself implementing what I learned earlier on and I've enjoyed being able to put this new knowledge to use. The material I've covered thus far has been basic, but I know that if I continue on this trajectory or learning and implementation, I will improve my skills. That is all I can ask for.

#### "build something - even if it's just a 20 line function that computes something you find interesting"

- I've noticed myself programming more and finding more enjoyment in actual coding and solving problems I encounter. The main issue I've had in the past was thinking of ideas of things I wanted to build. I actually don't know if that was the legitimate problem. I was being lazy. No excuses. There were always things I should have made, like a personal website, or a blog. I still want to build both of those things, but I would continually push those ideas off. Like many people, I tend to over complicate a situation in order to avoid it. That's we complicate anything right? It's hard to begin or even stay on task when you are confused and don't know what actions to take.

- One lesson I've learned the past few days has been to take the smallest step possible in the direction of your goals. The details are not often important until you get to a more advanced level. Why sweat the minutiae? The more important factor is actually beginning the process. There may be things you have to unlearn and change as you improve, but that is part of the process. You should always be questioning how and why you are doing a particular thing, but not the point that you paralyze yourself. The best possible plan that isn't acted upon is not as good a the simple plan that is started.

- Another lesson I've learned is that there are going to be days where I don't feel like it, but I still have to execute regardless. I didn't feel like doing this tonight. I didn't sleep much last night. I had plans to hang out with friends later this evening. These are all excuses. I want this thing more. I want to set myself up for the rest of my life. Feeling like isn't important. Sometimes you have to go through the motions. I want to be a professional. Well, technically, I am. I have a job as a developer, but I want to get significantly better. To me, part of being a professional is showing up to work. EVERY. SINGLE. DAY.

  - In this sense, I will compare programming to the gym. I love working out. Working out is pretty easy to get myself to do. That was not always the case. I used to hate going to the gym, but after making progress and coming to love the process, I've found it incredibly rewarding. One thing I noticed was, I didn't always feel like working out, but I always felt better after exercising. Even if I went through the motions. Often times I was feeling some resistance towards exercising, but I would force myself to go or I was fortunate that a training partner kept me accountable. I would push through and persevere for a little bit and then a switch would flip. I would end up getting really into it and have a phenomenal session when it is all said and done. They are not all going to be phenomenal though. There are days where it sucks and I just went to do the bare minimum. I still got my reps in. This is where I believe discipline is critical, you're not always going to feel like it. This is the same approach I must adopt with programming and learning how to program. There are going to be days that suck. Especially since I am learning a new skill and not very good at it yet. I can think of the things I want to accomplish in my head, but I don't quite know how to implement them. This can be disheartening for me. I must persevere.

    - This is not to say that taking breaks is not important. Sometimes you need to step away. I've actually come up with quite a few solutions to problems I've encountered by walking away. We all have our own limits and that is up do your own personal discretion.

  - Programming is like the gym in another sense as well. The effort that you put in directly correlates with the results you see. If you want to be successful and get better, you must put in additional hours. I think this is reasonably true for most endeavors we take on up to a point of diminishing returns. Going back to the point about breaks, there are definitely times of doing too much and leading to injuries due to overexerting yourself. This is again up to your own personal discretion.

    - Full disclosure, and you may have even begun to realize this if you've been reading, I am somewhat of a workaholic. I enjoy working. I enjoy putting in long hours. There is definitely room for me to optimize and become more efficient, but I don't like the feeling of not doing. I don't like wasting time. Being able to divert my time and energy into this process will be awesome and will be extremely rewarding.

#### "if you build something, document it and test it as appropriate"

- For all of the projects I attempt as a part of this process, I commit to building them and testing them out as was laid out earlier.

#### "do the exercises, build the projects - fully, not some scaled down halfassery"

- One theme I'm noticing in @P1xt's guides is not half assing things. I really respect that. As you've probably notice, I operate in extremes. I'll often give all of me or none of me. I often become obsessed. I actually see myself inching in that direction right now. I'm not going to prevent that from happening either. I know that many people may preach moderation, but I believe in pushing yourself to your extremes to learn where your middle ground truly lies. If I find a specific endeavor beneficial, which I do with completing the guides, I am going to commit my time. If I commit my time, I might as well commit that time in the best manner I possibly can. To me, that means no distractions, my best energy, all my enthusiasm, and giving the best I can at that particular time. I've always felt that having a positive mindset and a positive approach are some of the keys to tackling your goals in an efficient manner.

### For four projects of your choosing

#### "Seek 1-3 other developers to collaborate on the project"

- I will ask my friend Ralph (@plumdot) to collaborate on the projects with me. We have both agreed to go through this process together. He is about to begin the Hack Reactor remote bootcamp. I honestly believe that he is going to blow me out of the water when he is finished, especially in terms of pure JavaScript ability. I'm really excited to see his growth. He skills have already improved tremendously while going through the Hack Reactor prep course. I can't imagine how good he will be by the time he completes the actual bootcamp. If he is too busy, which I can't blame the guy if he is, I have a few other people in mind that I may ask to collaborate with. If no one is available though, I will reach out to potential Chingu cohort members if I end up joining one.

#### "Coordinate with the team to complete the project"

- If I end up collaborating with Ralph, we are pretty good at communicating, so I don't think that coordinating to complete the tasks will be too difficult. Ultimately, it would depend on who is interested in completing what portion of each project and the main conflict that may come up would be schedule related.

#### "Build the project out to a full production quality application"

- Building out a full production quality application will be a bit daunting for me. As I've mentioned before, I've never really deployed anything aside from a couple of projects on Heroku. The few things that I've deployed at work were either easy to do via SSH into our servers, or having our lead push out my changes. This is good though, I need to improve this part of my skillset. I also would like having a few projects out in the wild.

- Also, while I know backend, I'm not really too confident in my knowledge. I think I can stand to get a lot better in terms of Node, Express, and Mongo when it comes to the JavaScript side. I also plan on actively working to improve my skills with PHP and MySQL as those are what we primarily use at work (we also use Node, but not on things I've worked on thus far).

#### "Invite others who are not associated with the team to rigorously test the final product."

- I have a few people I can reach out to ask about the final versions of our projects.
  - There are a few local devs I've befriended who are experienced and would be comfortable critiquing my work.
  - The lead dev and a couple of the founders at the company I work for are all extremely knowledgable and all have a meticulous eye for detail.
  - The community of the bootcamp I attended.
  - A few others I have in mind

#### "Resolve any legitimate issues found"

- I have definitely had this problem in the past. I've known that a particular project has had a specific, but often times, I would have already moved on to the next thing I was doing or trying to learn. If you look at a lot of my old repositories, you'll see comments like, "finish this aspect later," "I still need to do this," etc.... If I felt like I had learned enough to move on, I would. I didn't want to be stuck in that perfectionist rut. I need to find a good balance of this. I do plan on going through my old repositories and refactoring them.

**Thoughts**: Today was fairly straightforward. I know that I don't need to really get this involved and write long posts about every part, but I've really enjoyed it. It motivates me. As I begin to put in more time, it becomes easier for me to come back and put in even more time.

As always, thank you for getting here, and leave some feedback if you'd like. I always appreciate it.

Until next time,

Shug =]
