# FAQ Progress

### 9/30/2017

**Completed**:

### Once per month - do two or more of the following

#### "Write up a comprehensive blog post or markdown entry in a repository detailing the high points of what you learned that month"

- I don't know if I'll be able to keep up with this pace of daily commits to this repository, but I will make the effort to do just that. If not, I know that I will be able to write at least one markdown post a month. The difficult thing would be consolidating the information I cover into a single post. If I do continue making daily progress, it would be beneficial for me to make daily posts to better track what I've accomplished, but I do recognize that life comes into play from time to time.

- I also realize that the rest of these are pretty extensive and I may follow her recommendation of doing two or more of them within a month. I do believe that I can complete all of these tasks within the first month, but I do eventually want to get into the programming portion of her guides.

  - One of the reasons I say this is because I watched the [first recommended interview video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4NIb9l3imAo) and it was completely beyond me. This is the reason I don't think I'm a *good* developer. I have very little algorithmic knowledge. I know how to solve problems that I encounter, but one thing I don't do is solve them in the most efficient manner possible due to my lack of knowledge. I may actually go through the Free Code Camp map. I finished the first three sections, which were fairly simple due to my knowledge of HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and jQuery, but I think I will continue with the basic JavaScript portion as I begin to read *You Don't Know JS* and move into the algorithm sections when I finish the basics.

  - I would also say that the recommendations are really interesting, especially the Business Communications course, so I am excited to dive deeper into this section in the future.

#### "* Catch up on industry reading on sites like [Joel on Software](https://www.joelonsoftware.com/), [Coding Horror](https://blog.codinghorror.com/), [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/), [A List Apart](http://alistapart.com/articles), [UX Myths](http://uxmyths.com/), [JavaScript Weekly](http://javascriptweekly.com/)"

- Finally, I bookmarked all of the blog recommendations and will read them when I have free time. I've heard of both [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/) and [JavaScript Weekly](http://javascriptweekly.com/), but I haven't really gone through either.

### Do you have any hints for success?

#### "have git commits every week, most of the days of the week"

- I know I can push myself to have multiple commits a week, especially if I start adhering to the one commit per logical change rule. That seems like it shouldn't be too hard to accomplish. I also do want to continue to contributing as much as possible to this repository, so I hope to have daily, let alone weekly commits here.

#### "try to get in one of @tropicalchancer's cohorts - be active once you're in"

- I will look into joining a Chingu cohort. I think it would be extremely valuable to go through this process with additional developers who are going through the same process. I will update this post when I do that, and I'll update again if I get accepted.

#### "try to pick one to two other languages to use regularly for solving algorithms and implementing projects in addition to JavaScript (good choices would be to pick one of C++, Java or Python and one of Golang or Rust)."

- Out of the choices presented, Python and Golang seem the most appealing to me. I will honestly have to do a bit more research into both Golang and Rust to make the decision between the two of them. In terms of the other languages, I would definitely prefer to learn Python strictly for the data science perspective. I have heard of incredible things about the Python community and that it is fairly beginner friendly. I will look into some resources to begin to pick it up.

#### "spend 30 minutes a day studying math on Khan Academy"

- I actually wish I studied math further in college. That and computer science. I got up to Calc 2 for my Biology degree. Sequences and series are when things started to get a lot of fun for me. I actually think I might go back to start with basic algebra. It's been a while since I've formally touched math. I don't know how much of the previous math classes I remember all that well. I'm hoping for a similar experience to how relearning Git turned out earlier. I picked up a lot of information and gained a deeper appreciation for Git. I'm sure that I can learn a lot of mathematical tricks and push myself to actually understand what is going on as opposed to studying for a grade. I know that after playing with some basic math for a bit, I will get back into a good groove and feel comfortable again. One thing I definitely want to relook at is trigonometry. I never really cared for it in high school or college, but I saw how important it was. I think algebra may be a tad too easy to start with, but we'll see. I'll go through some of the courses and see what the content is like. I might just jump into pre-calc.

### What should I be studying alongside the guides?

#### "There WILL be math. And, it's important. If the thought frightens you, or bores you, or has you thinking 'this isn't for me', head to [Khan Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/) right now, sign up, and start devoting 30 minutes a day. This is an investment that will pay off. I'm not making this up."

- I have a Khan Academy account. I've never used it before. I will look into starting the math section of it as soon as possible.

**Thoughts**: Today was another straight forward day. I think I'll start going through the job ready guide tomorrow and use the FAQ as a reference for anything I need as I go along. I'll update this section with a new markdown post and the [FAQ document](../p1xt_faq.md) to display any progress I've made.

Until next time,

Shug =]
