# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/5/2017

**Completed**: Today, I reread the foreword and preface of *YDKJS Up & Going* on GitHub. I finished the hard copy of the book yesterday and my plan was to begin rereading the book on GitHub and check out any pull requests that were made. In this manner, I hope to clarify any confusion I may have had and learn more through any pull requests made to improve the quality of the book.

This endeavor will help me to reinforce the material I read the past couple of days. I hope to play with some of the concepts more deeply in my head and solidify my understanding.

  - **Side Note**: This is one aspect I think is absolutely incredible about the open-source community! It is so cool to see people collaborating and sharing knowledge to help improve the quality of life of a particular project. This helps the entire community benefit. I love seeing that!

  This is actually one of the reasons I really wanted to get into the tech field. Everyone I was fortunate to meet who was a developer was extremely passionate, encouraging, and wanted to see me succeed. I never got that vibe from any other field I worked in. These were the king of people I wanted to work with. I love seeing people who continually push themselves to get better and learn as much as possible. It is inspiring and equally humbling. There is something so beautiful and so inherently contagious about people who continually push themselves to excel.

- [X] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - I realize I am probably going to reiterate some of my initial thoughts doing this, but meh, what can you do?

  - Also, since the GitHub repo doesn't have any pages, if I include any quotes, I will include the page number corresponding to the page the quote was found in the actual book. I could include the line number on the markdown document, but I think I might be irritating for someone to look through a particularly long line for a quote. You know what, I'll just do both and let people choose the method that works best for them.

  [**Foreword**](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20%26%20going/foreword.md):

    - I still love the foreword. @jennlukas really knocked it out of the park with this piece. She succinctly describes the range of feelings I've gone through when attempting to pick up this new skill. Euphoric highs when solving a problem that had me stumped, and the soul crushing lows when I repeatedly question if I was good enough.

    - This quote still stands out to me: "When you strive to comprehend your code, you create better work and become better at what you do. The code isn’t just your *job* anymore, it’s your *craft*." pg. vi / line 12

      - This is honestly the part of getting better at programming that I've enjoyed the most. I don't want to mail it in order to receive a check. I want to contribute in meaningful and impactful way. I think taking pride in one's work is somewhat of a lost art these days. At last it appears that way to me. Regardless of what I've done, I've always taken pride in my work. I am of the belief that my work is a reflection on me as a person. In this manner, taking pride allows you not only to put your energy in and learn as much as possible but also to have an enjoyable time while doing the work itself. I would absolutely hate slogging through something I didn't care for.

      - I am extremely fortunate to work at an amazing company, [LoveBook Online](https://lovebookonline.com/). I don't know if I can ever repay the four cofounders and the lead developer for taking a chance when hiring me, but part of the reason I will become the best developer I can be is in order to attempt just that. I will give as much of myself as I can in order to help this company and its employees succeed. I "don’t want to settle for anything less -- this is, after all, [my] craft." pg. vi / line 14

  [**Preface**](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/preface.md):

    - "Because JavaScript *can* be used without understanding, the understanding of the language is often never attained." pg. viii / line 18

      - This is one of the reasons I want to master JavaScript. There are a lot of things I know how to do and implement, but I don't know *why* they are work the way they do. A deeper understanding is necessary.

    - I will "learn and deeply understand *all* of JavaScript." pg. viii / line 26

    - "I am not content, nor should you be, at stopping once something *just works*, and not really knowing *why*." pg. ix / line 30

    - You "don't *really* know JavaScript, yet, but if you dig into this series, you *will*." pg. xi / line 34

      - That is my goal.

**Thoughts**: I was glad I reread this section of *YDKJS* today. I enjoyed the motivational and uplifting tone of both the foreword and the preface. The positivity is something I must continue to reinforce while I embark on this journey. I am committed to getting as good as I possibly can as a developer. I acknowledge that there will be difficult and challenging moments throughout this journey, but if the first two weeks have been any indication, it will be so worth it! I am excited to keep moving forward.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me.

Until [next time](10_06_17.md),

Shug =]
