# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/3/2017

**Completed**: Today, I continued through the JavaScript Job Ready guide by reading Chapter 2 of YDKJS Up and Going. I apologize, but I have gotten behind on writing these posts, I will try to catch up as best as possible. I have still been carving time during my evenings to do additional study, but I have not been posting my progress in a timely manner. I will try to catch up with my notes over this weekend.

- [ ] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - **Chapter 2**: Chapter 2 provides a brief overview of topics that later books in the series would cover in more detail.

    - "Any good foundation is laid brick by brick." pg. 29

      - This quotes makes this process that more enjoyable. I realize that I will slowly build my skills and lay a good foundation that I may build off of.

    - You can use `typeof` to check the type of a variable. `typeof` returns that value in a string. "Only values have types in Javascript; variables are just simple containers for those values." pg. 31

      - Ex.

      ```javascript
        typeof '123' // "string"
        typeof 123 // "number"
        typeof true // "boolean"
        typeof {} // "object"
        ```

    - The `void` operator evaluates an expression and returns `undefined`.

    - Properties of an object can be accessed with *dot notation* (`object.property`) or *bracket notation* (`object["property"]`).

    - *arrays* and *functions* are a subtype of object

      - arrays are zero-indexed

      - arrays have a special property called *length* which tells you how many items are in that array.

    - Built-in Type Methods
      - a *string* can be wrapped by a *String object*
      - a *number* can be wrapped by a *Number object*
      - a *boolean* can be wrapped by a *Boolean object*
      - These wrapper objects provide methods we can use on the values

    - Comparing values

      - In JavaScript, comparisons are made via *equality* and *inequality*. The result of any comparison is a boolean value (true or false).

      - **Coercion**:

        - JavaScript has two types of coercion. It has *explicit* and *implicit* coercion.

          - Explicit coercion is when you can see from the code that a conversion from one type to another occurred.

            - `.toString()` or `Number()`

          - Implicit coercion is when the type conversion can occur as a side effect of another operation.

          - He doesn't get too much into the details of coercion, but I'm looking forward to the part where he explains his thoughts on it and why he believes it is a skill that all JavaScript developers need to learn better.

      - **Truthy & Falsy**

        - Sometimes, a non-boolean value will get coerced into a boolean.

        - Falsy examples
          - "" (empty string)
          - 0, -0, NaN (invalid number)
          - null, undefined
          - false

        - Truthy examples
          - strings
          - numbers
          - true
          - arrays
          - objects
          - functions

      - **Equality**

        - There are four equality operators

          1) == - checks for value equality with coercion allowed

          2) === - checks for value equality without allowing coercion

          3) != - checks for inequality with coercion allowed

          4) !== - checks for inequality without allowing coercion

          - non-equality =/= inequality

        - On implicit coercion, he again makes the point that it "is a powerful tool that helps your program, *if you take the time to learn how it works*." pg. 38
          - This is a lesson that I've been having a much broader application as opposed to strictly learning programming. Due to deadlines, we often take a quick approach to learning. We learn enough that we can implement but never gain a true understanding of what we have done. I often take this route. This is one of the reasons that I want to go through @P1xt's guides thoroughly. I want to be able to understand what I am doing in JavaScript, and have the necessary context to see if how I can do things better. As I go on this journey of relearning the fundamentals and gaining a greater understanding of JavaScript, I will try to apply the lessons I learn not only to programming, but to my life in general.

      - **Inequality**

        - Operators

        1) > - Greater than

        2) >= - Greater than or equal to

        3) < - Less than

        4) <= - Less than or equal to

      - **Variables**

        - Variable names must be valid *identifiers*.

          - Must start with a - z, A - Z, $, or _

          - They can contain any of those values and numbers (0-9), but numbers can't start a variable name.

          - JavaScript has certain reserved words that cannot be used a variable names i.e for, if, else, etc.

    - **Function Scope**

      - You use the `var` keyword to declare a variable that will belong to the current scope. A variable will be a global variable if at the top level scope.

      - **Hoisting**

        - "Wherever  a `var` appears inside a scope, that declaration is taken to belong to the entire scope and accessible everywhere throughout."

          - This means that a `var` is *hoisted* or brought to the top of the particular scope it is in.

          - This works the same with functions. You can call a function and have it declared later in the code.

      - **Nested scope**

        - A variable you declare in a given scope will be available in that scope and any scope that is inside of the current scope.

        - If you try to access a variable in a scope that it does not have access to and is therefore not defined in, you will get a `ReferenceError`.

          - If you try to set a variable that hasn't been declared, you will either create it in the global scope, or you will get an error in "strict mode."

            - **Always formally declare your variables!**

        - In *ES6*, you can use the `let` keyword to create a variable for a particular block.

          - Block scoping allows for a greater control of your variable scoping.

    - **Conditionals**

      - *Switch* statements, I barely use these at all. The only time I remember myself using one was in React actions.

        - You must add a `break` to each case or the code will continue to execute to the next case.

          - You can sometimes use this to create a desired result. Called "*fall through*."

      - **Ternary / Conditional operator** - I only learned of the ternary operator a few months ago. I've found myself using it quite frequently. It is extremely useful to output a single if else statement.

        - For those that aren't familiar, a ternary follows this pattern

          - (condition) ? if true do this : if false do this;

          - I've found them extremely useful to condense a lot of code and it often allows you write solutions in a single line as opposed to writing a more verbose conditional equivalent.

    - **Strict Mode**

      - Makes your code stick to a more particular and stringent set of standards that are seen as safer and more optimized.

      - Prevents global variable declaration when you don't include the `var` keyword.

      - I've tried to get into the habit of always including a `'use strict';` statement at the top of all of my JavaScript files.

    - **Functions as Values**

      - The function is itself a value, therefore, functions can be passed into to other functions as values. Values (arguments) can be passed into functions as well.

      - "*Named function expressions* are generally more preferable."

    - **Immediately Invoked Function Expressions (IIFEs)**

      - Functions will not run unless they are explicitly called.

      - IIFEs will run immediately after they are defined

        - You wrap the function in () and add a set of () to the end to invoke that function

        ``` JavaScript

            (function myNameIs(){
                console.log('Chka-chka slim Shugmi');
            })();
        ```

        - IIFEs are useful for variable scoping and returning values. I don't use these often, if at all, but I will see if I can find a place for them.

    - **Closure**

      - Closure is a technique to access a functions scope after that particular function has been executed.

      - **Modules**

        - Both closure and modules are topics that somewhat confused me. I understood closure, but don't think that I could explain it to someone if asked to. Modules seemed to be a manner in keeping certain information private, but in a manner that can be accessed from the public. I'm intrigued to read the next entry in the YDKJS series to get a deeper dive into these two concepts. In the meantime, I will look at the MDN docs and try to find some additional resources to bring myself more clarity on these two items.

    - ** *this* identifier**

      - If a function has a *this* reference, *this* does not refer the function itself.

      - To understand what *this* points to, you have to see how the function itself was called.

    - **Prototypes**

      - Linking the properties of two objects. The property may not actually exist on one of the objects, but because they are prototype-linked, the JavaScript engine will look at the original object to find the property.

      - Helpful for "behavior delegation." Delegate parts of your linked objects for certain behaviors.

    - **Old & New**

      - **Polyfilling**

        - The included [article](https://remysharp.com/2010/10/08/what-is-a-polyfill) provided a lot of great information about polyfilling.

        - Polyfilling allows you to use new JavaScript code on browsers that may not support the implementation of the newer code. Not all new features can be polyfilled.

        - Things to look into:
          - [ES Shims](https://github.com/es-shims)

          - [ES5-Shim](https://github.com/es-shims/es5-shim)

          - [ES6-Shim](https://github.com/es-shims/es6-shim)

          - [ES7-Shim](https://github.com/es-shims/es7-shim)

      - **Transpiling**

        - The reason why not all new features can be pollyfilled, is there are scenarios when new syntax is introduced to the language.

        - Transpiling converts your new code into an equivalent older version.

        - Transpiling is a combination of transforming + compiling.

        - Transpiling allows you to use the newer syntax on browsers that can handle it and serve the transpiled code to older browsers that don't support new syntax.

        - I will look into some examples of transpiled code to understand what is going on under the hood.

        - I will also take a look into Babel. I've used it only sparingly when playing around with test projects, and to be quite honest, I don't know much about ES6 aside from arrow functions, `let`, `const`, promises, and async / await. These are all concepts I hope to get a better hold of the more and deeper I learn JavaScript

      - **Non-JavaScript**

        - DOM - The document object is a global variable that exists when your code runs in a browser. It's a special object often referred to as a "*host object*."

          - I didn't know that the DOM was not based in JS

        - `alert()` is provided by the browser and not the JavaScript engine.

        - `Console` is also provided by the browser.

**Thoughts**: Chapter 2 provided a lot of great information about much of the basics of the JavaScript language. I'm excited to continue reading the YDKJS series to increase my knowledge and get a better understanding of how to write the best JavaScript code I can.

As always, thanks for getting this far if you did. I would appreciate any feedback you have for me.

Until [next time](10_04_17.md),

Shug =]
