# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/1/2017

- We have finally made it into October. Let the spookiness begin! I'm excited to continue making some progress and finally beginning @P1xt's Job Ready guide. Here's to a great month of growth!

- Something interesting happened when I checked @P1xt's GitHub today. She created a new version of her job ready guide! I was actually not expecting to see this. The new guide looks like it covers a lot of more and gives the individual developer more flexibility in completing the guide. I also like that she layered the reading with courses in between. I added both the [original](../p1xt_job_ready.md) (in case it gets deleted) and the [new one](../p1xt_javascript_job_ready.md). I will update both with the progress I make. I will personally be following the updated guide, but I will constantly check her GitHub to see if she makes any updates in order to update the appropriate guide.

- She also added a prep section to her job ready guide. I was not expecting to see this, but it is a welcome addition. It gave me an interesting choice, but ultimately, the resources looked like the could be worked in conjunction with the rest of the guide. I'm excited to finally jump into the job ready portion. It looks like I've already completed the Git portion of the new guide due to following her [FAQ guide](../p1xt_faq.md).

**Plan**: I will work my way through Tier 1 and work on Tier 0 alongside the rest of the guide. The math recommendation seems reasonable, so I will start with the College Algebra course and move on from that. I'm actually pretty excited to get back into math. It has been a long time since I have practiced math in any formal sense. I'm not too sure when I'll get started on the course, but I hope to be doing the 30 minutes a day of math practice by the end of the day. I need to set up a good rhythm first. I've noticed myself becoming unbalanced. I need to find a good balance of coding for work, coding and learning for personal growth, working out, all the other stuff I want to accomplish, and of course sleep somewhere there. The last few days have been somewhat hectic and I haven't found myself sleeping all too much. I know that I can accomplish all of the things in the list above, but it will require me to be more disciplined with my time and more protective of any free time I have. I can't afford to be wasting precious moments. They must all be wisely invested.

**Completed**:

- I started today by applying to a Chingu cohort. I was hoping that they would have both a front-end and back-end part time, but it didn't look like they did. I honestly don't even know if I applied to a specific cohort, or if I submitted some sort of general application. They say that they review their applications once a week and then will respond afterwards. I'll find out if I'm accepted in about a week or two. I hope I get in so that I can join a community of like minded people who are all trying to improve their development skills. That would be awesome! It would be awesome to foster those relationships but also lean on people for help and offer help in situations where I can. I enjoy being in those types of environments. The growth is unparalleled. Everybody is trying to improve themselves and it raises the collective motivation. Everybody wants to see everybody succeed (for the most part =p).

- [ ] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - I started to reread the first entry in the YDKJS series. I really enjoyed going through it the first time. Kyle Simpson sort of described the developer I was at this current stage in my career. I don't want to settle to be that type of programmer. I want to get a lot better. I purchased the hard copy and took some notes originally, and I will quickly reread the book and then make my way through the version on GitHub. The reason I will be doing this is because I know that he has been making some changes for a second version. I will post any interesting things I learn along the way.

  - **Foreword**:

    - I really enjoyed the foreword by Jenn Lukas. She describes exactly why I want to learn how to program better. I want to master my craft. I don't want to be a developer who has enough knowledge to *get by*. I want to understand what is going on under the hood and be able to get the most of what I am doing. These two quotes really resonated with me:

    - "When you strive to comprehend your code, you create better work and become better at what you do. The code isn't just your *job* anymore, it's your *craft*." - pg. vi

    - "We don't want to settle for anything less -- this is, after all, our craft." - pg. vi

  - **Preface**: I enjoyed the tone that Kyle Simpson sets for the rest of the book. This is about learning JavaScript. Learning the language's nuances, and pushing yourself to become the best JavaScript developer you can be. Some quotes I enjoyed were:

    - "This *You Don't Know JS* series offers a contrary challenge: learn and deeply understand *all* of JavaScript, even and especially 'The Tough Parts.'" pg. viii

    - "... the tendency of JS developer to learn just enough to get by, without ever forcing themselves to learn exactly how and why the language behaves the way it does."

    - "I am not content, nor should you be, at stopping once something just works and not really knowing *why*."

**Thoughts**: I actually didn't make it too far today, both due to my own sheer laziness and the fact that I had other work responsibilities I had to take care of. Also, I fooled around with recording an audiobook for the YDKJS series. I enjoy reading while I listen to an audiobook. I can set the speed faster and read to the sound of the reader's voice as opposed to my own internal voice. I already recorded myself reading both the Foreword and the Preface. This would allow me to learn a lot of skills I've wanted to play with and start pushing content on YouTube. I can't say the production quality would be too high, but I think it would be better than no audiobook being available. I will reach out to the author @getify (Kyle Simpson), and ask him if I would be allowed to record myself reading and post it to YouTube. I'll try to post a few unlisted clips so I can send them to him so he can judge for himself.

Overall though, I'm excited to get back into reading YDKJS and begin to learn as much as I possibly can about JavaScript.

As always, if you got to this point, I tremendously appreciate it. Leave me some feedback if you'd like. If you happen to be reading YDKJS, drop some of the things you learned, or one of your favorite quotes. I would enjoy seeing it.

[Until next time](10_01_17.md),

Shug =]
