# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/6/2017

**Completed**: Today I worked through a couple Git tutorials I saw posted in a Slack channel I'm in.

- [X] [Oh Shit Git!](http://ohshitgit.com/)

  - This doesn't go into any great detail, but as the name would imply, it is a great reference when you mess something up and simultaneously yell out an expletive. I really enjoyed the commands that are shared and the context in which they could prove useful.

  - `git reflog` was something I remember hearing in one of the [Git Foundations](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLg7s6cbtAD15G8lNyoaYDuKZSKyJrgwB-) videos.

    - This helped me fix a mistake a couple of days ago. I deleted a commit, but realized I never saved the code changes anywhere and scrambled to find them as opposed to having to rewrite all of the code I lost. I used `git reflog` restored the commit and was able to retrieve the code I needed. It proved super handy and I will be adding it to my toolbox.

  - `git commit --amend` have used this a couple of times in the past few days when my old committing habits kick in.

- [ ] [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)

  - I really enjoyed this tutorial. The visual and interactive nature of it allowed me to understand what happens when you run particular commands in Git. I walked through the first section on working with local repositories.

  - **Main**:

    - I don't usually use relative refs, but it was a good thing to get more familiar and comfortable with. As the lessons progressed, I could begin to see how you could quickly traverse your git history very quickly. I still wouldn't say I'm too comfortable with it, but definitely more than when I first started.

      - `^` allows you to move upwards one commit at a time.

        - This allows you look at the parent of whatever commit you were looking at

        - `git checkout HEAD^` is relative to where the HEAD currently is located.

          - I can see how using this to traverse through your commit history is simpler than finding the commit hash via `git log` for the prior commit.

      - `git checkout HEAD~n` to move upwards n commits

      - I did not know you could reassign a branch to a particular commit

        - You can use `git branch -f branchYouWantToMove HEAD~n` or point it to a particular commit hash

        - I still noticed myself forgetting this while the lessons moved on until I began to see that a couple of their solutions relied on it to get to the recommended number of steps for their solutions. This prevented me from having to checkout a certain branch in order to move it reducing the number of steps required, but I'm not sure how often I'd use this. I'd prefer to check out a branch and then move it to where I want it to be located, but again, as this becomes something that is more practiced, it might prove to become second nature.

      - Fortunately, I've rarely had to use `git reset` or `git revert`. Whenever I have, I would look up how to fix my repository on Stack Overflow. I was happy to get more "safe" practice with both of these commands.

        - `git reset` moves a local branch to an older commit.

        - `git revert` moves a remote branch to an older commit.

      - `git cherry-pick <commit1> <commit2> ...`

        - I had no idea that you could move commits from branches into a different place using the `cherry-pick` command. I would have simply used a rebase or a merge at this point, but I can see how `cherry-pick` would be more useful in the case that you only want to bring over a few commits from a branch and not the entire thing. I can't really think of scenarios where this would be relevant to me, but if there comes a time, I will try to make use of it.

      - Interactive Rebasing or `git rebase -i`

        - I liked the UI they included that made visualizing the changes you could make with an interactive rebase a lot easier to see. I've used `git rebase -i` in the past primarily to squash commits when merging my changes from a development branch into the master branch.

        - It was nice getting some practice with both `cherry-pick` and `rebase -i`. These type of commands when there is a potential for messing things up can be somewhat daunting. Messing up is where a lot of learning occurs. I would prefer to make these mistakes in a "safe" environment that doesn't have any negative ramifications than blowing up something that is live.

      - `git tag`

        - I don't really use tags when using Git, but I can definitely see how it would make traversing your git history easier, especially when you have a rather large commit history. It may be something that I need to look at deeper to introduce into my workflow in more meaningful ways. I realize that using tags may be extremely useful in scenarios where you use `git bisect`, but fortunately I have not had to do that *yet*.

      - `git describe`

        - Tells you where you are at in a particular branch. Points at the closet tag you are near, how many commits you are away from that particular tag, and the hash of the commit that you are on.

        - I'm not really all too sure how useful this command is, but a lot of commands I neglected to use in the past have become increasingly more useful the more I learn, so `git describe` may prove equally as useful in the future.

      - Chaining modifiers

        - I found it pretty cool that you can chain to commands to more quickly traverse your commits using something like `git checkout HEAD~^2~4`. I will have to practice a few times to ensure I end up at my desired location with quick mental math, but it seems like it would be extremely quick and efficient when you have that down.

**Thoughts**: I really enjoyed going through both of these resources. I was pretty exhausted today so I unfortunately kept my learning to a rather limited scale. I do have to say, I was happy to have learned something. Lately, I've been adopting the mindset that my daily goal is to be smarter at the end of day than I was at the start of the day. If I accomplish that, I can be happy and satisfied. Today, I may not have accomplished as much as I would have liked, but I still grew as an individual and as a programmer. I've been really enjoying this journey thus far as I've felt my programmatic brain expanding. I've really enjoyed it and am excited to see where it goes from here. I'm going to finish up the [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) tutorial tomorrow and then continue reading *YDKJS* on GitHub.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. If you have any feedback, I would genuinely appreciate anything you would share with me.

Until [next time](10_07_17.md),

Shug =]
