# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/9/2017

**Shoutout**: My shoutout today goes to none other than [P1xt](https://github.com/P1xt). I had a brief conversation with her on Twitter today, and she recommended I start a Medium to post my thoughts as opposed to the time needed to *properly* build a blog. I ended up writing a post about [my journey to becoming a better programmer](https://medium.com/@ShugKnight24/the-journey-to-become-a-better-programmer-2e57c62a3e4e). I would love if you would check it and out and tell me what you think.

I am deeply thankful and appreciative that she took the time to not only acknowledge my work, but also read through it. I'm unbelievably grateful for the small gestures that people do. They mean so much to me. Thanks @P1xt!

**Completed**: Today, I continued rereading YDKJS Up and Going on GitHub. Again, since this is a review, I will focus on things that stood out to me. If you want to see my original thoughts, check out my [10/3 post](10_03_17.md).

- [X] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - **Chapter 2: Into JavaScript**:

    - There are a couple of pull requests open for chapter 2, you can check them out by going [here](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/projects/1) and scrolling to the left. I don't think that any of them are really worth getting into, but take a look for yourself.

    - "Any good foundation is laid brick by brick, so don't expect that you'll immediately understand it all the first pass through." pg. 29 / line 8.

      - This reminds me of the story Will Smith tells about building a [brick wall](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q4zTiejfzsc) and the lesson it taught him. I love this clip and the message it conveys. You have to have an irrational belief in yourself and your abilities. The thing you are doing will still require you to do the work and endure the grueling challenge that is in front of you. This is actually one thing I think both *The Secret* and *The Law of Attraction* miss. You need to do the work necessary to bring your dreams into reality.

    - "Only values have types in JavaScript; variables are just simple containers for those values." pg. 31 / line 52.

    - **Note to self**: Talk to Adam about

    ``` javascript

    var a = null;
    typeof a; // "object"

    ```

    - **Note to self**: Look more deeply into the `String`, `Number`, and `Boolean` wrapper objects to find out more about the methods they contain.

    - "*Non-equality* should not be confused with *inequality*." pg. 37 / line 242.

    - "`==` checks for value equality with coercion allowed, and `===` checks for value equality without allowing coercion." pg. 37 / line 244.

    - ES5 spec on `==` can be found [here](http://www.ecma-international.org/ecma-262/5.1/#sec-11.9.3)

    - Still looking forward to reading his thoughts on `==` and adding it to my toolbox.

    - Both *closure* and *modules* are beginning to make more sense to me. I don't know if I quite grasped them in their entirety, but they have begun to make more sense. Excited to learn more about them in the future.

    - Great article on [polyfills](https://remysharp.com/2010/10/08/what-is-a-polyfill).

    - I don't think I caught this my first time through, but apparently `NaN` values are the only value in JavaScript that is not equal to itself.

      - I tried it out and indeed both `NaN == NaN` and `NaN === NaN` evaluate to false. Fascinating. I wonder why that is?

**Thoughts**: I enjoyed reading through Chapter 2 of YDKJS Up and Going. It was a good refresher of the material I covered a week ago. I'll finish of the book tomorrow.

As always, thank you for reading, and I'd appreciate any feedback you have so that I can continue to get better in writing these posts.

Until next time,

Shug =]
