# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/19/2017

**Update**: I need to write this because I've been bad. I haven't been keeping up with my daily updates. I've still been studying and doing additional learning according to the JavaScript Job Ready guide every day, but I need to get into a better habit of pushing out these markdown entries. They can be somewhat of a time commitment to write, especially the manner in which I like to convey what I've learned that day, but the pile of ones I have to write will keep on stacking up if I don't start whittling away at them.

I've been busy with a project at work and trying to keep up with everything else I want to accomplish, that I haven't carved the daily time required to write these updates. To be honest though, that is somewhat of an excuse. I know that I can do more and that I can be better. I must protect my free time diligently and invest it into myself. There have been times that I've caught myself not doing anything productive, I don't think there is anything inherently wrong with that. We all need breaks. It is not feasible to be unlimitedly focused and working yourself like a taskmaster. You will burn yourself out. This is not the case. I've allowed my perfectionist mentality hold me back in this regard. There are some days where I've chosen to push off writing an entry, only to do the same thing the following day.

This post is a commitment. A commitment to get back to writing these updates and staying on track with the work that I've been doing. I know that daily updates are not necessary, but I learned so much more by writing an entry every day. They allowed me to consolidate the information I was learning and apply it instantly. Writing these entries allowed me to play with the concepts I covered in my head and extrapolate them in a different manner. This helped me to solidify the material I covered earlier in my brain. Additionally, I know that I am so much more fresh when I write these immediately. The information is right there on the tip of my tongue and it is easier for my to convey the message I want to. I know I can make up a lot of the ground this coming weekend. I will really hammer away at these and try to catch up as much as possible. They may not be completely possible as I am behind from 10/7, but I have outlines written for most of the days I have missed. I will go through the process of cleaning up what I wrote and begin pushing these out more frequently.

I apologize for the lack of consistency, but here is to getting back on track!

See you some more this upcoming weekend!

Shug =]
