# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/10/2017

**Shoutout**: Today I want to give a huge shoutout to [Rochester Full Stack Meet Up](https://www.meetup.com/Rochester-Full-Stack-Meetup/) in Rochester, Michigan. I've been attending their meet ups ever since I started working in the area. I've enjoyed going to their events, getting to know some of the regulars, and having the opportunity to learn from most of the members.

If you are in the Metro Detroit area, I would highly recommend checking out a RFS meet up if you have the chance. They have a great community and I've gained a lot of valuable programming knowledge from speaking with the members and browsing the awesome content on their Slack channel. A big thank you to the organizers Caroline, Eric, Mark, and Spencer for doing a fantastic job and putting on an amazing meet up. They're great people!

Today's meet up was a programming trivia night. My team won and we got some to pick awesome programming themed mugs. I got an awesome "Eat. Sleep. Code." mug. Hits me right in the feels.

**Side Note**: At the meet up, one of the questions used [arguments](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/arguments). I did not know such a thing existed and I'm going to look into this concept some more. It seemed really fascinating.

**Completed**: Today, I continued rereading and eventually finished the first installment of *YDKJS* series on GitHub. Since this is a review, I will focus on anything that stood out to me. If you want to see my original thoughts on Chapter 3, check out my [10/4 post](10_04_17.md).

- [X] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - **Chapter 3: Into YDKJS**:

    - I didn't find any relevant pull requests at the time of writing this post. If that has changed, feel free to point me into that pull request(s) direction.

    - "Serious developers in other languages expect to put in the effort to learn most or all of the language(s) they primarily write in, but JS developers seem to stand out from the crowd in the sense of typically not learning very much of the language." pg. 61 / line 6.

      - Still love this quote. Again, I appreciate it more so for the fact that this is the thing I want to accomplish. I want to put in the necessary effort required to master JavaScript. I've been fortunate to work with developers who take their craft seriously and have had a solid understanding of JavaScript and have largely imparted their JavaScript knowledge on to me.

    - "Embrace that we'll never fully know every part of JS, because as soon as you master it all, there's going to be new stuff coming down the line that you'll need to learn." pg. 66 / line 82.

      - I've definitely felt the overwhelm that can come with learning JavaScript. There are so frameworks that exist. Every other week it seems like there is a new thing that is all the rage. Web development in general feels so wide open right now. It is almost as if we as developers have some sort of weird requirement to master all of those frameworks for current and potentially future employment opportunities.

      - This is one reason I wanted begin to follow @P1xt's guides and pushing myself to learn as much JavaScript as I possibly can. Once I have that done, I can branch off to begin to learn different technologies that will build off of my JavaScript knowledge. I'm excited to keep pushing and expanding my knowledge and learn as much as I possibly can.

    - "The *YDKJS* series is dedicated to the proposition that all JS developers can and should learn all of the parts of this great language." pg. 67 / line 100.

      - This is my goal. I will learn all of JavaScript. ALL OF IT!!!!! =p

**Thoughts**: I really enjoyed rereading *YDJKS Up and Going*. It was a great opportunity to revisit the material I covered the first go around. It also gave me the opportunity to play with the material some more in my head and get a clearer understanding on some of the concepts. I'm really looking forward to cracking into the rest of the *YDKJS* series and expanding my knowledge. I really like how Kyle Simpson conveys knowledge in *Up and Going* and if that is any indication of the rest of the series, I am up for a treat, and I'm going to learn a ton! I've really enjoyed going through this process thus far and I'm extremely excited to finally jump into [CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x)!

As always, thank you for reading these. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me so that I can continue to get better and tailor these posts into the kind of content you would want to see. At the end of the day, I really just want to help people who are in a similar position to myself.

Until next time,

Shug =]
