# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/13/2017

**Completed**:

- [X] I finished watching [CS50 2016 Week 0 at Yale](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z6qATR0VLnk).

  - As I mentioned the first time watching the week 0 lecture, the part about redundant code really stood out to me.

    - I need to get into the habit of rewriting more maintainable, modular code. I've gotten better over the past few months, but I can still stand to improve a bit.

    - One thing I struggle with is when it is necessary to break your code apart into separate functions, and when, if at all, do you keep it as it is.

      -  I have a feeling that most people would recommend writing a separate function or breaking up the code when in doubt, but at the same time, I don't know if breaking every simple action into its own function is good practice either. I want my code to be easy to maintain and easy to update so if it is changed in one location, it doesn't have to be changed in several other places. I suppose that is an advantage of making every smallest action its own function. You could call that function whenever it is needed and if you update it in one place, the update will persist throughout.

      - I'll talk to my lead dev to pick his brain on the subject and I'll try and see if I can find any relevant articles or blog posts. I'll be sure share anything I find.

**Thoughts**: Unfortunately, today I didn't spend as much time as I would have had liked studying. I was spending some time finishing up some things for work.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me so that I can continue to get better. Thank you!

Until [next time](10_14_17.md),

Shug =]
