# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/14/2017

**Completed**:
So today I did something a bit different, I saw that @P1xt put out a blog about a [CSS November challenge](https://github.com/ShugKnight24/P1xt_november_css). Improving my design sense and skills is definitely in the list of things I can improve on. I started by completing the first portion of the mini challenge. If you are interested, you can check out my work [here](https://github.com/ShugKnight24/pure_css_images)

I also played around with my Scratch a bit more, but I didn't make as much progress as I would have liked. I couldn't really think of any ideas for the problem. I was pretty busy doing some stuff for work. It was fun time. I worked pretty closely with one of the cofounders and our lead dev, so it was fun.

I enjoy spending time with people who consistently push me to improve and get as good as I possibly can.

  - [X] [Scratch Walkthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=697pD31GCZg)

    - I still couldn't think of anything I wanted to make in Scratch so I watched this walkthrough by Zamyla Chan

    - Every object in Scratch is a *sprite*

    - Sprites can have:

      - *Scripts* - The behaviors of the sprites

      - *Costumes* - The appearance of the sprites

    - The stage

      - The canvas where all sprites are placed

      - The Stage can also have *scripts* and *backdrops* (costumes)

    - Entry point

      - Pressing the green flag to run the program

    - Multiple tabs

      - Scripts, costumes, and sounds

      - Statements will tell the actions that occur

      - Other blocks to tell when to make those actions occur

    - Booleans

      - Expressions that evaluate to either *true* or *false*

      - They have angled ends in Scratch

    - Booleans must be used with conditions

    - Loops

      - Prevent use of redundant code

    - *Variables*

      - Containers for values

      - You need to be careful to set variables in the proper scope

        - *Global* - Will effect all sprites

        - *Local* - Will effect only one sprite

    - *Events*

      - Scratch can also track when certain events occur

        - Keypresses, clicks, etc.

      - *Broadcasting events*

        - Allows sprites to communicate and receive certain messages

          - *Broadcast* - signals and event

          - *When I receive* - handles the event

    - *Threads*

      - Your program is handling multiple processes simultaneously

    - The walkthroughs of [HungryDino0](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/12148550/#editor), [HungryDino1](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/12148499/#editor), and [HungryDino2](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/12148585/#editor) provide a great overview of the basics of Scratch.

**Thoughts**: I found the Scratch walkthrough video extremely insightful. It takes into account a lot more of the nuances of game design that I would have initially considered.

I think I developed an idea for a program / game that I want to make and I'll start working on it tomorrow.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me so that I can continue to get better. Thank you!

Until [next time](10_15_17.md),

Shug =]
