# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/15/2017

**Completed**: I'll be quite honest, I made very little progress today in terms of moving forward with the JavaScript job ready guide. I did not finish off the Scratch problem like I originally wanted to. I really didn't make all that much progress on implementing what I saw in my head. On the bright side, I made a substantial amount of progress on a work project, so I was pretty happy about that.

- [ ] [PSet0](https://docs.cs50.net/2017/x/psets/0/pset0.html) of [CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x)

  - All together, I probably spent less than two hours working on the Scratch problem. I wanted to commit a bit more time to it, and even try to hack my way to completing it, but every time I felt myself getting into a groove, I would think of a way to improve something I was doing on a work project. After a couple of attempts, I decided to focus my attention on the work project.

**Thoughts**: I spent a good amount of time with one of the cofounders of LoveBook today. He really helped me refine the project I was working on. It was awesome working so closely with him. He would consistently give me advice on how I could improve my thinking and implementation in the future. As someone who really appreciates feedback, It was awesome! Especially when someone gives up their weekend / free time to help me. Aside from that, we had some really great conversation about life and some weird philosophical conversations we always have. It's those little interactions that I value so much. I'm so fortunate to be where I'm at and working at the company that I am.

While I'm disappointed in the amount of progress I made with Scratch today, I'm glad that I was able to make progress in another domain. Ultimately, I want to continue to grow, both personally and professionally, so I will take the progress where I can get it! By the end of my day, I was kind of mentally exhausted, and I really didn't want to play with Scratch. These times make me realize that *those* days when you don't want to do something are exactly the days you should do the thing you are trying to avoid. I always feel empowered afterward. Like I built up a bit of my own willpower and perseverance. I know that this might not be the case for everyone, but it definitely works for me. Some people may be hesitant about burnout and that is something I totally respect, but I suppose it is finding that personal sweet spot and dedicating yourself to the things you eventually want to have and be. I want to be a good developer. I must give my time, focus, and energy to achieve that. It will be difficult but it will be so worth it!

Let me know what you think. Was there a time when you saw yourself build mental toughness by hammering through a task you wanted to avoid? Or are you the type of person who needs to disconnect and take a break from time to time to do their best work? I'd enjoy hearing what techniques people use to work at their best. As always, I'd love your feedback.

Until [next time](10_16_17.md),

Shug =]
