# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/12/2017

**Shout Out**: Today's shoutout goes to the company that I work for [LoveBookOnline](https://lovebookonline.com/) / @LoveBookOnline. Today was an extremely humbling day for me and I would like to deeply thank this amazing company that has given me the opportunity to grow as a developer. I have been here for roughly 10 months and it has been an incredible ride. I'm extremely fortunate to be in the position I am working with the people I do.

I am probably the least talented person at their given discipline at this company. Everyone brings an amazing amount of passion, knowledge, and enthusiasm to work everyday. It has honestly been a beautiful change of pace from jobs I've had in the past where it can feel like you are slowly shredding your soul on a cheese grater.

My coworkers honestly make it the best place to work. They are great people who are constantly pushing themselves to get better, but not only within their professional fields. They want to grow in every single facet they possibly can. I love seeing that! It inspires me to commit as much energy as I possibly can to grow as much as I can. It is extremely humbling to see people who are so talented and knowledgable, possess such an insatiable hunger to learn and continue to get better. It is incredibly contagious. I can see why people say that your environment and the people you surround yourself with are so important to your own success.

 I want to thank the 4 cofounders and the lead developer for taking a chance on me. I'm sure I wasn't the most qualified person that applied, but they saw something in me and were willing to give me a shot. I am forever grateful and indebted to them for this opportunity and I will work my ass off to try and repay them. This was honestly one of the main reasons I wanted to embark on this mission and get as good as I possibly can. I want to and will provide as much value as I can.

**Completed**:

  - [ ] Today I worked through [PSet0](https://docs.cs50.net/2017/x/psets/0/pset0.html) of [CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x)

    - I did not complete the entire Scratch assignment, honestly, I couldn't think of something I wanted to build. I had a fun time playing with their interface and messing around. It's weird playing with this tool when you have some basic understanding about programming. I think some advanced programmers may scoff at this problem set and possibly not attempt it at all, but I found it to be an opportunity to rethink the manner in which I approach problems. While playing with it, I realized what a great tool it was to get those unfamiliar with the concepts of programming introduced to the fundamentals. It made more sense why they would start off the course by focusing on Scratch. If you find yourself in that more advanced camp and are reluctant to try it, I would definitely recommend putting away your ego, as difficult at that can be, and playing around. To me, the beauty was in its simplicity.

      - Check out [some of the awesome projects](https://scratch.mit.edu/explore/projects/all/popular) people have made using Scratch. It's pretty remarkable what some people were able to do.

      - This is another cool thing I like about programming. Similar to math, more advanced concepts build off of the simple concepts. It is extremely important to lay a solid foundation that you can build off of. You want to make sure you understand the fundamentals because you will be relying on them heavily throughout your time as a programmer.

  - [X] I read [This is CS50 2016](https://medium.com/@cs50/this-shall-be-cs50-2016-faed96945f81) by David Malan, the instructor of CS50.

    - He basically goes over a lot of the background information of the course and how they've tried to improve it over recent years. It was cool seeing the statistics they've gathered over the years.

    - Great resources in this article:

      - [Problem Set Walkthroughs](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhQjrBD2T3805odbdwGC-1QymtOSV1119)

      - [CS50 Shorts](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLhQjrBD2T380dhmG9KMjsOQogweyjEeVQ)

  - [ ] I also watched half of [CS50 2016 Week 0 at Yale](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z6qATR0VLnk).

    - While perusing the CS50 YouTube channel, I discovered that in 2016, they redid the week 0 lecture at Yale. I rewatched part of it while doing some cardio at the gym.

    - It was pretty similar to the first week 0 video, so I'll only note anything that stood out.

    - "What ultimately matters in this course is not so much where you end up relative to your classmates, but where you in week 11, the end of the semester, end up relative to yourself in week 0" - David Malan

      - He said this quote again. I like it so much that I had to include it again. I really love the message behind it. It is something that I must continue to realize and adopt this manner of thinking.

    - Something interesting about the phonebook example was mentioned that I didn't previously consider. For the algorithm that is discussed, the phonebook must be alphabetized or else that search process of opening to the middle would not work. You may potentially have to look through every single page of the phonebook in order to find the person you were looking for.

      - This leads to talk about sorting and filtering data, which is definitely something I want to get better at.

        - At my time at LoveBookOnline, I've implemented a few search features for backend GUI systems, but I'm not sure if I am doing them in the most optimal ways. This is why I am excited to learn and get better at all of these techniques so that I can eventually revisit a lot of my old code and refactor it to make it substantially better.

        - Manipulating, understanding, and analyzing data is something that I want to look into as I continue on this programming journey. I've spoken to a few people about Python and R, and would like to look into those languages in the future. I'm excited because CS50 spends a couple of lectures covering Python. I also know that @P1xt has a [Data Science Guide](https://github.com/P1xt/p1xt-guides/blob/master/data-science.md). With how much I've enjoyed her web dev one thus far, I will probably check it out in the future. Not sure if I'd continue with the more general CS one or branch to Data science, but I can make that decision in the future.

**Thoughts**: Tomorrow, I plan on actually figuring out what I want to build in Scratch and then I will finish watching the Week 0 at Yale video. It was nice to rewatch the first lecture presented in a slightly different manner. It helped to reinforce the concepts discussed.

As always, thanks for reading. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me so that I can continue to get better and make these posts interesting and beneficial. Thanks!

Until next time,

Shug =]
