# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/3/2017

**Initial Thoughts**: I noticed that I had not written an intro to the JavaScript Job Ready section like I had for the FAQ section. I somewhat wrote one in the beginning of the [10/1/2017](october_17/10_01_17.md) post, but I wanted to expand on it and give a bit more of my thoughts before I jump further into the JavaScript Job Ready guide.

I've been quite pleased with how things have been going thus far. That is, everything aside from a lack of sleep. I've been focusing so much on work, the gym, studying after hours, and writing these posts that my sleep has been suffering as result. I will get my sleep in order or it will all come crumbling down. I think that a lot of people underestimate how much a restful night's sleep impacts the following day. Like myself, everyone has so much they want to do in any given day. It is like that saying about college. You have grades, your social life, and sleep. You can only pick two. A lot of us think that we can get by in a chronically tired state. We tell ourselves that our body adapts. We champion those who sleep little as "*more committed*" or "*always hustling*", but I often wonder if those people would actually be more productive if they slept more. I can function on sub 6 hours of sleep. Functioning is different than working at an optimal level and all cylinders firing. There is a definite decline in my cognitive abilities when I don't get an adequate amount of sleep. Another thing I notice is that I do not recover from my workouts as I normally would when I have a night of suboptimal sleep. If I have a solid 8 hours of uninterrupted sleep, I am ready to conquer my day, my mood is elevated and more consistent, and I am more outgoing. If I get less, it takes me a bit of time to get into the zone, I have highs, but I have lows, and I like to keep to myself more. I know that once I get into a solid routine, I can juggle all of these things effectively, but the one cornerstone I cannot skip my sleep.

Speaking of effectiveness, this is something that Dr. Jordan B. Peterson often talks about. He speaks about how through becoming better and improving yourself, you have the ability to make yourself more efficient. He says that it is unbelievable how efficient people can get as they begin to get better and improve themselves. In a sense, the efficient become more efficient as they perfect their techniques and routines. I mention this because I am starting to notice a shift in my own priorities. I used to feel antsy when I wasn't being *productive*, but before I could let go of that feeling and realize that I was spending time with friends, relaxing, or having meaningful conversations / experiences that made it worth while. Yes! Spiraling into a hole of YouTube videos is meaningful... Jeez... You're not my mom... Unless you are... Then hi mom. Sorry. I still want to have and do those things, but for now that antsy feeling quickly tells me to get back to doing something I should be doing to move myself forward towards my goals. I notice my mind asking myself if I'm using my time in the best possible manner. Currently, I've been prioritizing learning over everything. I know that looking back at my previous paragraph on finding a balance with sleep, this seems hypocritical. It is. I recognize that. I have really been enjoying programming and learning so I have been devoting my time and energy to this pursuit. It is easier for me to say "no" and eliminate things I identify as a distraction. I've been diligently guarding my time. There will be a time when I go to the extreme and I will have to restore balance, but as I believe I've mentioned in a previous posts, I like to push myself to my extremes to realize where my true middle ground actually lies.

I've also become strangely confident in my abilities the last few days. I may not know everything, far from it actually, but I take solace and comfort knowing that I will *eventually* learn what I need to. It is only a matter of time. I'm not sure why, but that has taken a huge burden off my shoulders. I've felt like I've been able to solve problems much more effectively. I approach things differently. I've also noticed myself able to help coworkers solve some problems they've been encountering and it makes me feel awesome. There is few things I enjoy more than helping people fix their problems. It is always a gratifying feeling of success and achievement!

One thing that's weird about coding, actually, any endeavor that you are so closely tied to, it is difficult to notice a wrong approach or why something isn't working when you are unable to detach. A fresh set of eyes can truly be a gift in those situations. This is one reason I enjoy talking with coworkers because through our conversation, they tell me about how they would have approached the problem to get to a solution. That conversation allows everything to click for me. I have this problem. Detachment is difficult for me to achieve. It is easy for me to stay in my head.

**Plan**: As I've mentioned, I will be starting with the JavaScript Job Ready plan. I think going through it will really help me solidify my JavaScript fundamentals and improve my programmatic thinking. If going through those Git tutorials was any indication, I will learn a ton and clarify a lot of information that I was unsure about.

I'm honestly extremely excited to get into full gear with this process. One thing I'm already noticing early on is that this process will take a long time. Due to having a job, I'm not able to commit as much time to this learning process as I'd ideally want.

I'm actually quite fortunate though. My job is incredible. I love what I do. I love who I work with. The opportunity I've been presented with is nothing sort of incredible. It is something I am grateful for every, single, day. I'm also incredibly fortunate that I learn a good amount every day while programming. I have the direction and the time necessary to gain mastery over this particular skill. I suppose that is the nature of the game. Encounter a problem, figure out a way to resolve that problem, new problem comes up that you've never heard of, look it up on Stack Overflow or relevant documentation to learn how to solve it, doesn't work, look at monitor in a confused manner, coding god magically places answer in your head, implement that fix, rinse and repeat.

Work has also proven to be a great testing ground to implement things I've learned. I've already seen myself using a lot of the Git techniques I learned the past couple of weeks. I now regularly use the commands `git log`, `git diff`, `git hist` (a command alias I found), and I've been attempting to stick to the guidelines of writing *good* commits that only contain one logical change.

One thing I want to do is write a review at the end of every month to see how things are progressing, how I'm feeling, any major lessons I've learned, and how I've begun to implement my newly acquired knowledge. I'm really excited to go through this process. The time investment will be well worth it

**Side Note**: Today, I updated Atom to version 1.21. I was waiting specifically for this rpdate for the IDE capability. Atom as an IDE is incredible. If you use Atom, or would like to try it out, here is what you need to do.

1) Add the package `atom-ide-ui`
2) Add the packages for the languages you work with
  * I added `ide-php` for php (you need to have PHP 7 installed on your machine) and `ide-typescript` for JavaScript

This thing is awesome! I especially love the outline view (`option + o`). It allows you to quickly navigate through functions and variables. Really handy. You don't have to `cmd + f` for everything. I love the IDE highlighting and the fact that you can see the contents of an entire object, function, or method. Really cool. I'm sure I'll learn a ton more in the upcoming couple of days so I'm excited to play around with it.

I've also been playing with the Git integration in Atom and it is awesome! You can stage what they call *hunks* or even specific lines you want to stage and commit. This has been extremely helpful to make one logical change per commit even when I go in and take care of a few problems at once. I still may play around with Visual Studio Code a bit, but man, Atom really is pulling out all the stops.

One thing that is unfortunate is that the update killed my `atom-live-server` package, but I'm sure they'll be able to patch it shortly.

That's it for now. If you'd like to start with my JavaScript Job Ready progress from the beginning, check out the [10/1/2017](october_17/10_01_17.md) post.

Until next time,

Shug =]
