# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/4/2017

**Completed**: Today I continued the JavaScript Job Ready guide by reading Chapter 3 and finishing *Up and Going* the first entry in the *You Don't Know JS* series.

- [X] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - **Chapter 3**: Chapter 3 dives into the various topics that the rest of the books in the *YDKJS* series will be covering.

    - **Into *YDKJS***:

      - "Serious developers in other languages expect to put in the effort to learn most or all of the language(s) they primarily write in, but JS developers seem to stand out from the crowd in the sense of typically not learning very much of the language." pg. 61

        - It is interesting that he says this because the few JavaScript developers I have been fortunate to work with, were all incredible masters of JavaScript. Now perhaps that is my opinion of them as a JavaScript and in general a programming newb, but these people all really had an incredible knowledge of the language and pushed me to learn the it the *right* way. I've learned a tremendous amount from them. I'm extremely fortunate to have had them as colleagues, teachers, mentors, and friends.

      - In talking about the *YDKJS* series, "it challenges you to go beyond your comfort zone and to ask the deeper 'why' questions for every single behavior you encounter. Are you up for that challenge." pg. 61

        - I am up for this challenge. This is somewhat of the philosophy I've been approaching my learning journey with. I want to push through a lot of the concepts and ideas I have been unfamiliar with and become a more complete JavaScript developer. I will question everything and learn as much as I possibly can. I will stand up to and meet the things I fear head on.

    - **Scopes and Closures**:

      - The JavaScript Engine compiles your code before executing it.

      - Variable hoisting

      - Understanding "lexical scope"

      - Understanding closure

        - Module pattern

    - ** *this* & Object Prototypes**

       - The *this* keyword does not refer to the function it appears in

         - The *this* keyword is dynamically bound based on how the function is executed.

         - There are four rules to understand *this* binding

       - Object prototype mechanism

          - Emulating (fake) classes and ("prototypical") inheritance.

          - Learn how this system actually works.

          - "behavior delegation"

    - **Types & Grammar**

      - Tackling type coercion

        - "Coercion is a tool *you should be using in your code*. I'm saying that coercion, when used properly, not only works, but makes your code better." pg. 64
    - **Async & Performance**

      - Cover asynchronous programming

        - Asynchrony is becoming a critical part in performance, writability, and maintainability of our code.

        - Clean up the terminology of asynchronous programming.

      - Callbacks

        - *Inversion of Control* (IoC) trust loss

        - lack of linear reason-ability

      - *Promises*

        - Allow you to write code around a future value

      - *Generators*

        - Generators can be paused at `yield` points and resumed asynchronously later

      - Web workers

      - Data parallelism with SIMD (Single instruction multiple data)

        - from what I've seen, SIMD is no longer being implemented, but I may be mistaken.

      - ASM.js

      - Performance optimization via proper benchmarks

      - "It requires a lot of intricate and detailed planning and effort on our parts to take a program from 'it works' to 'it works well.'" pg. 65

        - I really liked this quote. I think this is why taking time in the beginning stages to layout a plan and have requirements laid out can eliminate a lot of future headache. Of course things are going to change, but if you are mindful, you can try to mitigate this change as much as possible. This is another reason of why I've been going on this mission of learning how to program better. I want to write programs that work well, not just serve their purpose. I want to craft and create things that exceed expectations.

    - **ES6 & Beyond**

      - JavaScript will never stop evolving, we must continually stay up with the current trends and techniques.

      - "Embrace that we'll never fully *know* every part of JS." pg. 66

      - Talk about the known future of JavaScript and where JavaScript is likely headed.

      - New syntax of ES6

    - "All JS developers can and should learn all of the parts of this great language." pg. 67


**Thoughts**: I really loved *You Don't Know JS Up and Going*. It was a fantastic read and Kyle Simpson does a fantastic job giving an incredible overview of JavaScript. He provides a lot of information and nuance about the language. I learned a lot of more general knowledge and now I'm extremely excited to dive deep into the topics discussed in the future books. The next step in the JavaScript Job Ready looks like to begin [CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x). I've watched a couple lectures here and there in the past, but I'm really looking forward to going through this course to completion. The instructor, Professor David Malan is incredible. He is so enthusiastic and passionate about teaching programming that I can't help but get excited. First, I am going to reread *Up and Going* on GitHub and check out the pull requests to see if there are any interesting changes from the original.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. I'd appreciate any feedback you have. If you've read *Up and Going* or have done CS50, I'd love to hear your thoughts.

Until [next time](10_05_17.md),

Shug =]
