# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/8/2017

Today I reread Chapter 1 of *YDKJS Up & Going* on GitHub. It was good to get some review and I was happy to see a pull request about an issue I brought up in the [10/2 post](10_02_17.md) about an example on pg. 19 / line 471 in the [ch1.md](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20%26%20going/ch1.md). Since this is a review, I'm going to focus on things that stood out to me.

**Completed**:

- [X] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - **Chapter 1: Into Programming**:

    - This is still a great piece on [Mastering the developer tools console](http://blog.teamtreehouse.com/mastering-developer-tools-console)

      - I really enjoy how the author dives into the `console` API. It is extremely informative and I'd highly recommend.

    - Additional resource for [Expressions and operators](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Expressions_and_Operators)

      - Cool operators I want to look more Into

        - Unary negation
        - Unary plus
        - Exponentiation operators
        - Bitwise operators (not particularly sure when these would prove useful, but they seem cool none the less)
        - Delete (not sure why I'd want to delete a variable, object, or an object property, but I'm sure there are cases when this operator would prove useful.)
        - typeof (been using this more as of late, but still want to get more comfortable with it, especially when doing conditional logic)
        - void
        - Spread operator (have really only used it in React. Even there, sparingly.)

      - Special Shoutout to the ternary operator. It makes my life so much easier. I still need to use it more often and get better with it.

    - The [pull request](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/pull/549) that I referenced earlier. It addresses the thing I was confused about in the explanation. You need to check the phone price and the accessory price to your bank balance to ensure you have enough money to make the purchase.

**Quiz**: Refactoring my original quiz. I switched the code to run with a prompt and added a `<=` to purchase a phone if the `totalPurchasePrice <= bankAccountBalancePrompt`, even if that may not be the best financial decision. Future me can hate current me some other time ;]. I was pretty satisfied with everything else, but, as always. would love any recommendations on how to refine this.

``` javascript

'use strict';

const TAX_RATE = 0.06; // Michigan sales tax
const PHONE_PRICE = 840; // cost of Samsung Galaxy S8+
const SCREEN_PROTECTOR = 49.99; // Accessory 1 = Zagg screen protector
const PHONE_CASE = 32.99; // Accessory 2 = Otterbox case
const SPENDING_THRESHOLD = 900;

// var bankAccountBalance = 1000;
var bankAccountBalancePrompt = prompt('How much many is in your bank account?')

var totalPurchasePrice = 0;

while (totalPurchasePrice < bankAccountBalancePrompt){

    totalPurchasePrice = totalPurchasePrice + PHONE_PRICE;

    if (totalPurchasePrice < SPENDING_THRESHOLD){

        totalPurchasePrice = totalPurchasePrice + SCREEN_PROTECTOR + PHONE_CASE;

    }

    // ensure that you buy at least 1 phone if you can afford it
    if (totalPurchasePrice + PHONE_PRICE > bankAccountBalancePrompt) {
        break;
    }

}

function calculateTaxes(totalPurchasePrice){
    totalPurchasePrice = totalPurchasePrice + (totalPurchasePrice * TAX_RATE);
    return totalPurchasePrice;
}

function formatTotal(totalPurchasePrice, calculateTaxes){
    console.log('Your final total is: $' + calculateTaxes(totalPurchasePrice).toFixed(2));
}

if (totalPurchasePrice <= bankAccountBalancePrompt){

    formatTotal(totalPurchasePrice, calculateTaxes);

} else {

    console.log('Sorry, you don\'t have enough money in your bank account to purchase the phone.');

}

```

**Review**:

  - "To build a tall tower, you start first by putting block on top of block on top of block. The same goes with programming." pg. 28 / line 787.

    - Still love this quote. It's been an approach and a mindset shift I've been taking thinking of recently. I've looked at most things I've done as adding another block in the tower I am trying to build. Currently, I feel more like I am relaying a more solid foundation for me to continue to build off of in the future. It can be challenging, but it is and will be so worth it! I've really been enjoying going through this process. It has been so enjoyable to me and it has been so rewarding.

**Thoughts**: It was good to get another day of review in with the more basic, but fundamental concepts in JavaScript. I was really happy to see my thinking wasn't necessarily flawed when it came to my original thoughts on that code block. Excited to continue getting better and continuing to grow.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me.

Until [next time](10_09_17.md),

Shug =]
