# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/7/2017

Today I accomplished a tad less than anticipated. I was hoping to finish both the branching tutorial, and review the first chapter of *YDKJS Up and Going*, but I wanted to hang out with some friends and had to take care of some stuff for work. I still had what I felt was a beneficial learning day and enjoyed getting some more practice with Git commands.

**Completed**:

- [X] [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)

  - **Remote**:

    - `git clone`

      - The visualization really came in handy when the tutorial began to introduce remotes into the picture.

      - It was easy to see how remotes work in a detached HEAD state if you make a commit and the remote has not technically been updated.

    - `git fetch`

      - It should only be viewed as the download step

      - I don't typically use `fetch` as I use `pull` instead, but I may have to get into the habit of fetching, looking at the commits, and manipulating them as needed. Typically, my workflow has been the type where

      - Since I'm writing this a bit after the fact, I've used `git fetch` a couple of times since to pull down some work our lead dev did so that I could experiment with his work and make any necessary changes.

    - `git pull`

      - Pulls down the changes from the remote and attempts to automatically merge those changes.

    - `git push`

      - Push work from your local repository, to the remote repository.

    - `git pull --rebase`

        - I did not know that you could fetch and rebase in a single command. That is pretty neat.

    - **Side Notes**: The *To Origin And Beyond -- Advanced Git Remotes!* levels is where the tutorial really started to shine. They started to get fairly complex and had a ton of opportunity to practice with rebasing, merging, and different ways to fetch, push, and pull. It was a lot of fun. I went over some levels multiple times to whittle the number of commands I used to match their number of step for a given solution. I always love seeing how different people solve problems. Especially if those people are better than you in that given discipline. You can see how to refine your own thinking and improve.

    - `git rebase`

      - **Pros**: Rebasing makes your commit tree look very clean since everything is in a straight line.

      - **Cons**: Rebasing modifies the (apparent) history of the commit tree.

      - I will talk to my lead dev to see whether he prefers I use `rebase` compared to `master`. I've used both in the past. I typically rebase when I have an older version of the repository than the remote and I'll open a pull request and merge when my repository is inline with the remote.

        - I think the key is to find what works best for your given team and not to stray away from that.

    - The level, *Merging with remotes* illustrated how crazy your Git history can look if you merge as opposed to rebase, but I can definitely see the appeal of keeping that history intact.

      - Using the `git hist` alias has really begun to illustrate that to me when looking through a repo's commit history.

      - I liked the explanation about the relationship between master to origin/master

        - "During a pull operation, commits are downloaded onto `origin/master` and then *merged* into the `master` branch. The implied target of the merge is determined from this connection."

        - "During a push operation, work from the `master` branch was pushed onto the remote's `master` branch (which was then represented by `origin/master` locally). The *destination* of the push is determined from the connection between master and `origin/master`."

    - `git branch -u origin/master foo`

      - set a different branch to track origin/master. Not exactly sure why you'd use that, but I suppose if you *really* want to use a different branch name.

    - Explanation of `git push origin master`

      - "Go to the branch named 'master' in my repository, grab all the commits, and then go to the branch 'master' on the remote named 'origin.' Place whatever commits are missing on that branch and then tell me when you're done."

      - In that command, `master` is the `<place>` argument.

        - This is where commits come from and where they go.

    - `git push origin <source>:<destination>`

      - This is really cool, I did not know this was possible.

      - Even cooler, you can use that command to create a new branch on the remote for you. What!?!

      - This was a lot of fun to play with. I don't know how often I'll actually use it as I might end up confusing myself, but I'm sure there is a time where this command could be beneficial.

    - `git fetch origin <source>:<destination>`

      - In this scenario, <source> is on the remote and <destination> is on local repository.

      - This command can create a branch for you locally if you don't have that <destination> available.

    - `git push origin :<destination>`

      - You can use this to delete a branch as you are pushing nothing to the <destination>.

    - `git fetch origin :<destination>`

      - Creates a <destination> branch

    - `git pull <source>:<destination>`

      - Combines the fetch and merge for the <destination>

      - You can also use this to create a new branch by setting that <destination> to a branch that doesn't exist.

**Thoughts**: I remember when I first started to work with Git and GitHub and I thought I was really understanding everything. I knew how to create commits, push them up, and even taking care of the occasional revert wasn't a problem. Then we started getting into collaborative work at my bootcamp. Holy crap. I got so frustrated with pushing, pulling, and merging. We tried to reduce these conflicts and avoid them altogether by working on different files, but we would still occasionally run into problems. Tensions ran high and everyone was on edge when doing anything Git related.

Having gone through that experience, I can see why version control can be so frustrating to so many individuals. It's an added layer of complexity, especially if you don't understand the parts. As I've begun to understand Git on a deeper level, I've begun to appreciate this added layer the past couple of weeks. I've definitely seen my use of Git improve and one of my coworkers has pointed it out to me as well.

This is one aspect I love about learning and constantly pushing your comfort zone. Forget about becoming great or even good, you won't stand a chance at becoming mediocre if you consistently refuse to confront those things that make you uncomfortable. Embarking on this journey to become a better programmer has made me realize this in my personal life. I've noticed a lot of growth the last couple of weeks, and I can only imagine where I will be if I continue on this trajectory.

I'll be quite honest. I have a tendency to ignore things. I often tell myself, "Well, it isn't a big deal right now." That's true, it isn't, but the that thing you ignore becomes a bigger problem the more and more you continue to refuse to address it. I've done this with certain things to the point where those once tiny things begin to rule your life.

This journey started for me when I first learned of Dr. Jordan B. Peterson and his work. Since then, I've tried to consistently push against those things that make me uncomfortable. I want to improve in every facet of my life.

The first [lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZGIU0FtXr9o) I watch by him blew my mind. It resonated deeply with me and I went out and purchased and read the children's book [There's no Such Thing as a Dragon](https://www.amazon.com/Theres-No-Such-Thing-Dragon/dp/0375851372/), by Jack Kent, that he discussed in that lecture. I know what you're thinking, "but Shug, that's a kids book." I'm well aware, but if this topic fascinates you, I would highly recommend it. I gained a lot from reading that book and listening to his lecture explaining it.

Getting back to the topic at hand, I would highly recommend going through this tutorial if you are not too comfortable using Git. Even if you are comfortable, work through it and see if you can improve and refine your knowledge. Visualizing the Git history in the tree form really helped me. Repetitively working with some of these commands allowed me to begin to understand how many of these commands operated.

As always, thanks for getting to this point. I'd appreciate any feedback you have for me.

Also, as I alluded to in my [10/19 post](10_19_17,md), my apologies for the delay in getting these up. I will do my best to catch up and continue to post them as up to date as possible.

Until [next time](10_08_17.md),

Shug =]
