# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/2/2017

**Completed**: Today, I continued by reading Chapter 1 of *YDKJS Up and Going*.

- [ ] [You Don't Know JS: Up & Going](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS/blob/master/up%20&%20going/README.md#you-dont-know-js-up--going).

  - **Chapter 1**:

    - I found it interesting that the JavaScript engine actually compiles your code on the fly then immediately runs the compiled code.

    - He doesn't mention this, but if you don't already know, the shortcut to open the dev console on a Mac is `cmd + option + i` on mac and `control + shift + i` on Windows.

    - For a left hand assignment, - "We first calculate the value on the *right-hand side* (source value) of the = and then put it into the variable that we specify on the *left-hand side* (target variable)." pg. 8

    - I didn't know the dot (.) had a name when accessing an object's properties. Apparently it is referred to as *object property access*.

    - Different representations for values are called *types*

      - You can use "*coercion*" to convert between types.

    - I'm intrigued to get into the later books where he will discuss why he believes that implicit coercion is not necessarily a bad technique to use. I've always heard to stay away from `==` or `!=`, so I'm excited to see his reasoning.

      - He argues that most JavaScript programmers haven't taken the necessary time to learn coercion, saying that "implicit coercion is a mechanism that *can* be learned, and moreover *should be learned* by anyone wish to take JavaScript programming seriously." pg. 12

    - Comments should explain *why* not *what*

      - I am guilty of writing *what* comments. I often use them to quickly search for something in a document with `cmd + f`. I also use them to annotate my code to indicate to people who may not be familiar with the layout of the page I am working with to indicate what is triggering the on `click` event. I may have to think of a better manner to approach this in the future.

    - JavaScript is a *weakly typed* language

      - *Weak typing* is also known as *dynamic typing*.

      - *Static typing* is also known as *type enforcement*.

    - He mentions that the primary purpose of variables is to manage state.

      - "*State* is tracking the changes to values as your program runs." pg. 15

    - I don't often declare constants, but if a case arises to use one, I will.

      - "JavaScript variables as constants are usually capitalized with underscores (\_) between multiple words." pg. 16

      - In ES6, you can use the `const` to make a variable immutable.

    - I was confused by the example on page 19. I'll include the code below and my thoughts afterwards

    ``` javascript
    const ACCESSORY_PRICE = 9.99;

    var bank_balance = 302.13;
    var amount = 99.99;

    amount = amount * 2;

    // can we afford the extra purchase?

    if (amount < bank_balance){
      console.log("I'll take the accessory!");
      amount = amount + ACCESSORY_PRICE;
    }
    // otherwise:
    else {
      console.log("No, thanks.");
    }
    ```

      - I guess my problem with the above example is that in this scenario, it makes sense that I'll be able to purchase two phones and an accessory. However, this may not always be true depending on the amount in your bank balance, or the number of phones you want to purchase. If we want to purchase 3 phones our total amount would be `299.97`. We would pass the `amount < bank_balance` conditional and then say, "I'll take the accessory," only to find out we no longer have enough in our bank to cover the three phones and the accessory. Shouldn't the first conditional check `amount + ACCESSORY_PRICE < bank_balance`? If that is true, you then purchase the accessory. I suppose I am already looking too far ahead and seeing potential edge cases, and I recognize that this snippet is written for beginners to introduce them to conditional logic.

    - A *for loop* has three clauses.

      - Initialization Clause ==> `var i = 0;`

      - Conditional Test Clause ==> `i < 9;` <!-- The 9 here is arbitrary -->

      - Update Clause ==> `i++`

    - In general, I need to be better about writing more modular code.

      - I often include a lot of statements within an event listener as opposed to writing a function and passing that into the event listener. I've been getting better the more I program. I'm also identifying bits of code that may potentially be run multiple times at different moments and writing a function so I can keep my redundant code to a minimum.

        - I also notice myself not using callbacks or passing parameters as often as I could to make my code more efficient. This is a practice I need to start incorporating more into my code where applicable.

**Quiz**: I will provide the example I made for the practice assignment at the end of Chapter 1.

``` javascript

'use strict';

const TAX_RATE = 0.06; // Michigan sales tax
const PHONE_PRICE = 840; // cost of Samsung Galaxy S8+
const SCREEN_PROTECTOR = 49.99; // Accessory 1 = Zagg screen protector
const PHONE_CASE = 32.99; // Accessory 2 = Otterbox case
const SPENDING_THRESHOLD = 900;

var bankAccountBalance = 1000;
// var bankAccountBalancePrompt = prompt('How much many is in your bank account?')

var totalPurchasePrice = 0;

while (totalPurchasePrice < bankAccountBalance){

    totalPurchasePrice = totalPurchasePrice + PHONE_PRICE;

    if (totalPurchasePrice < SPENDING_THRESHOLD){

        totalPurchasePrice = totalPurchasePrice + SCREEN_PROTECTOR + PHONE_CASE;

    }

    // ensure that you buy at least 1 phone if you can afford it
    if (totalPurchasePrice + PHONE_PRICE > bankAccountBalance) {
        break;
    }

}

function calculateTaxes(totalPurchasePrice){
    totalPurchasePrice = totalPurchasePrice + (totalPurchasePrice * TAX_RATE);
    return totalPurchasePrice;
}

function formatTotal(totalPurchasePrice, calculateTaxes){
    console.log('Your final total is: $' + calculateTaxes(totalPurchasePrice).toFixed(2));
}

if (totalPurchasePrice < bankAccountBalance){

    formatTotal(totalPurchasePrice, calculateTaxes);

} else {

    console.log('Sorry, you don\'t have enough money in your bank account to purchase the phone.');

}

```

I'd love to hear any thoughts you may have about how I solved this particular problem, and how I could potentially optimize it. I added the break statement there to ensure that you purchase one phone or you the while would run again and you would be out of luck. I also used a callback because I rarely use them and want to get into a better habit of using them.

- I liked this quote, "To build a tall tower, you start first by putting block on top of block. The same goes with programming."

**Review**: pg. 28

  - You need *operators* to perform actions on

  - You need *values* and *types* to perform different kinds of actions like math on *numbers* or output on *strings*.

  - You need *variables* to store data (aka *state*) during your program's execution.

  - You need *conditionals* like *if* statements to make decisions.

  - You need *loops* to repeat tasks until a condition stops being true.

  - You need *functions* to organize your code into logical and reusable chunks.

**Thoughts**: I really enjoyed going through Chapter 1 of Up and Going. He has a great manner of making examples that are easy to understand. A lot of the examples he uses with definitions are not things I've particularly heard in the past, but I enjoy the manner in which he is able to convey the material and make it more relatable and practical.

I'm excited to continue reading the book and the series in order to get a better grasp on the fundamentals of JavaScript.

As always, thank you for getting to this point. If you have any feedback, please feel free to share it. Also, if you have any thoughts about the code example that confused me, I would love to hear them.

Until [next time](10_03_17.md),

Shug =]
