# JavaScript Job Ready Progress

### 10/17/2017

**Completed**:

- [X] [PSet0](https://docs.cs50.net/2017/x/psets/0/pset0.html) of [CS50](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x)

  - Today, I finally completed the Scratch game I was working on. It's not great, but I wanted to put something out there as opposed to continue working away on something that I was not completely satisfied with in order to avoid submitting it.

    - You can play it [here](https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/182660732/). Check it out and let me know what you think.

    - It was based off of the [Slaying the Dragon Within Us](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZGIU0FtXr9o) lecture by Dr. Jordan B. Peterson. I've talked about both Dr. Peterson and this lecture in [a prior post](10_07_17.md). He has been impactful in my life and I wanted to pay him an homage.

      - The premise is fairly simple. It is a game where a knight goes to slay a dragon and has to avoid the evil ghoul that is trying to damage him.

      - Eventually, I'd like to revisit this game and make some improvements, specifically:

        - Cleaning up a lot of the functionality.

          - Less random (remove RNG).

          - Allowing the dragon to damage the knight if he is blowing fire.

            - Add costume of the dragon blowing fire.

          - More sprite variety?

          - Add an end game?

          - Add background if the player loses.

        - Add some more costumes to the sprites to make it clear when certain actions occur.

          - I added text to help overcome this, but I would still like to add.

            - A knight swinging a sword to illustrate attacking the Dragon.

            - The dragon changing form when the knight damages it.

            - Add the dragon blowing fire costume. Allow the dragon to damage the knight in this form.

  - During the submission process, there was a question that asked if we recorded a video to introduce ourselves to fellow classmates. I didn't see that in the PSet instructions, so I didn't do that part.

**Thoughts**: Scratch was a lot of fun to play with. It was a great tool to play with basic programatic concepts, and it allowed me to focus solely on my logic as opposed to worrying about a specific language's syntax. I still have some perfectionist feelings towards the game. It is pretty basic, and I want to make it better. Seeing what some of the other students were able to make really blew me away.

I would tremendously appreciate any feedback on this specific post and the game I made. What can I do better in my game? Where is my logic flawed? What features would you like to see? Were there any game breaking bugs any of you encountered? Any feedback you have for me would really be appreciated.

Until next time,

Shug =]
